{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 PORTFOLIO BUDGET STATEMENTS 2012-13\
BUDGET RELATED PAPER NO. 1.6 \
EDUCATION, EMPLOYMENT AND \
WORKPLACE RELATIONS PORTFOLIO\
BUDGET INITIATIVES AND EXPLANATIONS OF \
APPROPRIATIONS SPECIFIED BY OUTCOMES \
AND PROGRAMS BY AGENCY ISBN 978-0-642-78326-4 [PRINT] \
ISBN 978-0-642-78327-1 [PDF] \
ISBN 978-0-642-78328-8 [DOCX] \
With the exception of the Commonwealth Coat of Arms and where otherwise noted all \
material presented in this document is provided under a Creative Commons \
Attribution 3.0 Australia (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/au/) licence.  \
The details of the relevant licence conditions are available on the Creative Commons \
website (accessible using the links provided) as is the full legal code for the CC BY 3.0 \
AU licence (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/au/legalcode). \
The document must be attributed as the Portfolio Budget Statements 2012-13 \
Printed by Bluestar IQ iv Abbreviations and conventions \
The following notation may be used: \
NEC/nec not elsewhere classified \
  nil \
. not zero, but rounded to zero \
na not applicable (unless otherwise specified) \
nfp not for publication \
$m $ million \
$b $ billion \
Figures in tables and in the text may be rounded. Figures in text are generally rounded \
to one decimal place, whereas figures in tables are generally rounded to the nearest \
thousand. Discrepancies in tables between totals and sums of components are due to \
rounding. \
Enquiries \
Should you have any enquiries regarding this publication please contact Craig Storen, \
Chief Finance Officer, Department of Education, Employment and Workplace \
Relations on (02) 6240 6800. \
A copy of this document can be located on the Australian Government Budget website \
at: http://www.budget.gov.au. USER GUIDE\
TO THE\
PORTFOLIO BUDGET STATEMENTSviii \
USER GUIDE\
The purpose of the 2012-13 Portfolio Budget Statements (PB Statements) is to inform \
Senators and Members of Parliament of the proposed allocation of resources to \
Government outcomes by agencies within the portfolio. Agencies receive resources \
from the annual appropriations acts, special appropriations (including standing \
appropriations and special accounts), and revenue from other sources. \
A key role of the PB Statements is to facilitate the understanding of proposed annual \
appropriations in Appropriation Bills No. 1 and No. 2 2012-13. In this sense the PB \
Statements are Budget related papers and are declared by the Appropriation Acts to be \
\'91relevant documents\'92 to the interpretation of the Acts according to section 15AB of the \
Acts Interpretation Act 1901. \
The PB Statements provide information, explanation and justification to enable \
Parliament to understand the purpose of each outcome proposed in the Bills. \
As required under section 12 of the Charter of Budget Honesty Act 1998, non-general \
government sector entities are not consolidated into the Commonwealth general \
government sector fiscal estimates and accordingly, these entities are not reported in \
the PB Statements. ix \
CONTENTS\
Portfolio Overview ........................................................................................................ 1\
Education, Employment and Workplace Relations Portfolio Overview ........................... 1\
Agency Resources and Planned Performance .......................................................... 9\
Department of Education, Employment and Workplace Relations ............................... 13 \
Australian Curriculum, Assessment and Reporting Authority ..................................... 137\
Australian Institute for Teaching and School Leadership ........................................... 163 \
Comcare, the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Commission, and the \
Seafarers\'92 Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Authority .................................. 185 \
Fair Work Australia ...................................................................................................... 223 \
Fair Work Ombudsman ............................................................................................... 249 \
Office of the Australian Building and Construction Commissioner ............................. 275 \
Office of the Fair Work Building Industry Inspectorate ................................................ 297 \
Safe Work Australia..................................................................................................... 319 \
Glossary and Acronyms ........................................................................................... 3391 \
PORTFOLIO OVERVIEW\
EDUCATION, EMPLOYMENT AND WORKPLACE \
RELATIONS PORTFOLIO OVERVIEW\
Minister(s) and portfolio responsibilities \
The Portfolio Budget Statements provide information about the Education, \
Employment and Workplace Relations Portfolio. Through its portfolio agencies, the \
Australian Government takes a national leadership role in education, and aims to \
improve the productive performance of enterprises in Australia. The Australian \
Government works with the state and territory governments, other Australian \
Government agencies, various industries and a range of contracted service providers \
to provide high quality policy, advice and services for the benefit of Australia. \
The Education, Employment and Workplace Relations Portfolio comprises the \
Department of Education, Employment and  Workplace Relations (the department), \
and the following agencies: \
\'95 Australian Curriculum, Assessment and Reporting Authority (ACARA)  \
\'95 Australian Institute for Teaching and School Leadership (AITSL) \
\'95 Comcare \
\'95 Fair Work Australia (FWA) \
\'95 Fair Work Ombudsman (FWO) \
\'95 Office of the Australian Building and Construction Commissioner (ABCC) \'96 until \
1 June 2012 \
\'95 Office of the Fair Working Building Industry Inspectorate (FWBII) \'96 from \
1 June 2012 \
\'95 Safe Work Australia (SWA). \
The department\'92s responsibilities changed during the 2011-12 financial year as a result \
of the Administrative Arrangements Order  (AAO) that took effect on 14 December \
2011. The responsibility for Tertiary Education, Skills and International functions and \
policy has been transferred from the department, to the Department of Industry, \
Innovation, Science, Research and Tertiary Education.    \
To record the part-year effect of those functions that have transferred, the 2012-13 \
Portfolio Budget Statements include Outcome 5, which details administered program \
estimates that have transferred to the Industry, Innovation, Science, Research and \
Tertiary Education portfolio during 2011-12.   Portfolio Overview \
2 \
In addition, the departmental resourcing impacts for both agencies are included in this \
publication on an interim basis, pending final agreement. It is expected following the \
finalisation of the 2011-12 Final Budget Outcome, the Education, Employment and \
Workplace Relations will no longer publish estimates or performance information for \
Outcome 5. \
In addition to the abovementioned machinery of government changes affecting the \
department, the FWBII which is an independent statutory agency has been established \
in the portfolio by the Fair Work (Building Industry) Act 2012. FWBII is to commence \
operations on 1 June 2012.  \
As a result of the establishment of FWBII, and subject to any Ministerial \
determinations providing otherwise, the ABCC will cease operations on, or around, 1 \
June 2012 in accordance with the Fair Work (Building Industry) Act 2012.    Portfolio Overview \
3 \
Figure 1: Education, Employment and Workplace Relations portfolio structure \
and outcomes \
The Hon Peter Garrett AM, MP \
Minister for School Education, Early Childhood and Youth \
The Hon Bill Shorten MP \
Minister for Employment and Workplace Relations \
The Hon Kate Ellis MP \
Minister for Employment Participation, Early Childhood and Childcare\
The Hon Julie Collins MP \
Minister for Indigenous Employment and Economic Development \
Senator the Hon Jacinta Collins \
Parliamentary Secretary for School Education and Workplace Relations \
Department of Education, Employment and Workplace Relations\
Secretary: Lisa Paul AO PSM\
Outcome 1: Improved access to quality services that support early childhood learning \
and care for children through a national quality framework, agreed national standards, \
investment in infrastructure, and support for parents, carers, services and the \
workforce. \
Outcome 2: Improved learning, and literacy, numeracy and educational attainment for \
school students, through funding for quality teaching and learning environments, \
workplace learning and career advice. \
Outcome 3:  Enhanced employability and acquisition of labour market skills and \
knowledge and participation in society through direct financial support and funding of \
employment and training services. \
Outcome 4:  Safer, fairer and more productive workplaces for employers and \
employees by promoting and supporting the  adoption of fair and flexible workplace \
arrangements and safer working arrangements. \
Outcome 5:  A growth in skills, qualifications  and productivity through funding to \
improve teaching quality, learning, and tertiary sector infrastructure, international \
promotion of Australia\'92s education and training sectors, and partnerships with industry. \
   Portfolio Overview \
4 \
Figure 1: Education, Employment and Workplace Relations portfolio structure \
and outcomes (cont) \'96 Portfolio Agencies \
Australian Curriculum Assessment and Reporting Authority  \
Chief Executive Officer: Dr Peter Hill  \
Outcome: Improved quality and consistency of school education in Australia through a national \
curriculum, national assessment, data collection, and performance reporting system. \
Australian Institute for Teaching and School Leadership \
Chief Executive Officer: Ms Margery Evans  \
Outcome: Enhance the quality of teaching and school leadership through developing standards, \
recognising teaching excellence, providing professional development opportunities, and \
supporting the teaching profession. \
Fair Work Australia \
General Manager: Ms Bernadette O\'92Neill  \
Outcome: Simple, fair and flexible workplace relations for employees and employers through the \
exercise of powers to set and vary minimum wages and modern awards, facilitate collective \
bargaining, approve agreements and deal with disputes. \
Fair Work Ombudsman \
Ombudsman: Mr Nicholas Wilson  \
Outcome: Compliance with workplace relations legislation by employees and employers through \
advice, education and, where necessary, enforcement. \
Safe Work Australia \
Chief Executive Officer: Mr Rex Hoy \
Outcome: Safer and more productive Australian workplaces through harmonising national \
occupational health and safety and workers\'92 compensation arrangements. \
Comcare \
Chief Executive Officer: Mr Paul O'Connor  \
Outcome 1: The protection of the health, safety and welfare at work of workers covered by the \
Comcare scheme through education, assurance and enforcement. \
Outcome 2: An early and safe return to work and access to compensation for injured workers \
covered by the Comcare scheme through working in partnership with employers to create best \
practice in rehabilitation and quick and accurate management of workers\'92 compensation claims. \
Outcome 3: Access to compensation for people with asbestos-related diseases where the \
Commonwealth has a liability, through the management of claims.   Portfolio Overview \
5 \
Figure 1: Education, Employment and Workplace Relations portfolio structure \
and outcomes (cont) \'96 Portfolio Agencies \
Office of the Australian Building and Construction Commissioner \
Commissioner: Mr Leigh Johns  \
Outcome: Workplace relations laws are enforced in building and construction industry \
workplaces \
Office of the Fair Work Building Industry Inspectorate \
Commissioner: Vacant\
Outcome: Enforce workplace relations laws in the building and construction industry and ensure \
compliance with those laws by all participants in the building and construction industry through \
the provision of education, assistance and advice. Portfolio Overview \
6 \
PORTFOLIO RESOURCES\
Table 1 shows the total new resources provided to the portfolio in the 2012-13 budget \
year, by agency. \
Table 1: Portfolio Resources 2012-13 \
Receipts Total\
Bill No. 1 Bill No. 2 Special\
$m $m $m $m $m\
Appropriation\
Department of Education, \
Employment and \
Workplace Relations\
Administered appropriations 3,754        177           28,011      -               31,942      \
Departmental appropriations 616           7               -               53             676           \
Total:      32,618\
Aus  tr alian  Cur r iculum  , \
As s e s s m  e nt  and \
Reporting Authority\
Departmental appropriations -               -               -               31             31             \
Total:             31\
Australian Institute for \
Teaching and School \
Leadership\
Departmental appropriations -               -               -               23             23             \
Total:             23\
Comcare\
Departmental appropriations 6               -               -               500           506           \
Total:           506\
Fair   Wor k   Aus  tr alia\
Departmental appropriations 134           -               -               -               134           \
Total:           134\
Fair Work Ombudsman\
Departmental appropriations 186           16             -               -               202           \
Total:           202\
Office of the Australian \
Building and Construction \
Com m is s ione r\
Departmental appropriations -               -               -               -               -               \
Total: -\
Office of the Fair Work \
Building Industry \
Ins pe ctor ate\
Departmental appropriations 75             -               -               -               75             \
Total:             75  Portfolio Overview \
7 \
Table 1: Portfolio Resources 2012-13 (continued) \
Receipts Total\
Bill No. 1 Bill No. 2 Special\
$m $m $m $m $m\
Appropriation\
Safe   Wor k   Aus  tr alia\
Departmental appropriations 9               -               -               9               \
Total:               9\
Portfolio total 33,598      \
Less amounts transferred \
w ithin portfolio           (36)\
Resources available w ithin portfolio: 33,5629 \
AGENCY RESOURCES AND\
PLANNED PERFORMANCE\
Department of Education, Employment and Workplace Relations ........................ 13 \
Australian Curriculum, Assessment and Reporting Authority ............................ 137 \
Australian Institute for Teaching and School Leadership .................................... 163 \
Comcare, the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Commission,  \
and the Seafarers\'92 Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Authority............. 185 \
Fair Work Australia ................................................................................................... 223 \
Fair Work Ombudsman ............................................................................................. 249 \
Office of the Australian Building and Construction Commissioner .................... 275 \
Office of the Fair Work Building Industry Inspectorate ........................................ 297 \
Safe Work Australia .................................................................................................. 319 11 \
Department of Education, \
Employment and Workplace \
Relations \
Positional only 13 \
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION, EMPLOYMENT AND \
WORKPLACE RELATIONS\
Section 1: Agency overview and resources ............................................................. 15\
1.1 Strategic Direction Statement ......................................................................... 15\
1.2 Agency Resource Statement .......................................................................... 19\
1.3 Budget Measures ............................................................................................ 23 \
Section 2: Outcomes and planned performance ..................................................... 31\
2.1 Outcomes and performance information ........................................................ 31\
Section 3: Explanatory tables and budgeted financial statements ..................... 116\
3.1 Explanatory tables ........................................................................................ 116 \
3.2 Budgeted Financial Statements .................................................................... 119 DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Overview and resources \
15 \
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION, EMPLOYMENT AND \
WORKPLACE RELATIONS\
Section 1: Agency overview and resources \
1.1 STRATEGIC DIRECTION STATEMENT\
The Department of Education, Employment and Workplace Relations (the department) \
brings together people and services to support the Australian Government\'92s agenda on \
education, employment and workplace relations. The department makes a difference \
at many stages of an individual\'92s life: early childhood care and development; quality \
education; a skilled workforce with greater participation; safe workplaces and an \
inclusive society. \
The diverse functions of the department are closely linked to enable worthwhile \
collaboration and learning. Across the department all staff contribute to closing the \
Gap for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples, improving services in Regional \
Australia and for people experiencing disadvantage. \
The department delivers the Australian Government\'92s priorities and goals through the \
development and implementation of policies and programs. The goals are achieved in \
conjunction with the state and regional  network, and through engagement with \
stakeholders to: \
Provide a positive start in life \
Children have access to culturally appropriate support, care and education throughout \
early childhood that will equip them for life and learning. \
Offer a brighter future through education \
All school students acquire the knowledge  and skills to participate effectively in \
society and employment in a globalised economy and make successful transitions to \
further education, training and work. \
Ensure a safe, fair, productive and successful workplace \
Employers and employees are supported to adopt flexible and modern arrangements \
that lead to mutually beneficial outcomes in Australian workplaces and for the \
economy. \
Promote a participative and inclusive society \
People from all backgrounds have access to a range of services and financial support \
that help them overcome barriers, develop new skills and knowledge, gain \
employment and participate in society. DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Overview and resources \
16 \
As detailed in the summary of portfolio responsibilities, the Administrative \
Arrangements Order (AAO) that took effect on 14 December 2011 has resulted in a \
change to the 2012-13 outcome structure  for the portfolio. The responsibility for \
Tertiary Education, Skills and International functions and policy has been transferred \
from the department, to the Department of Industry, Innovation, Science, Research \
and Tertiary Education.   \
For the purposes of this publication, the estimates supporting the part-year (2011-12) \
transfer of administered programs as a result of the machinery of government changes, \
have been published under the department\'92s Outcome 5. The departmental resourcing \
impacts of the machinery of government changes are reflected from 2012-13 financial \
year onwards in Outcome 5, as agreed between the department and the Department of \
Industry, Innovation, Science, Research and Tertiary Education. However, it should be \
noted that at the time of publication, the  departmental resourcing transfers are interim \
and subject to final agreement by both agencies. \
The measures for the department in the 2012-13 Budget are set out in Table 1.2 and in \
Budget Paper No. 2. Major measures delivered in this Budget are detailed below. \
The Australian Government has confirmed additional funding for the Home \
Interaction Program for Parents and Youngsters. Access to early literacy and numeracy \
programs will be continued for the current 50 sites for a further two years and expand \
into an additional 50 Indigenous specific sites, benefitting around 3000 additional \
children. \
Significant additional investment is also being delivered under the Jobs Education and \
Training Child Care Fee Assistance (JETCCFA) program to help more parents get the \
training and skills they need to get into work. Additional funding under the program \
will  enable  more  families  on  income  support  \'96  mostly  sole  parents  \'96  to  access \
JETCCFA assistance for quality early childhood education and care for their children, \
while they work, study or train.   \
As  part  of  its  agenda  for  national  education reform, the Government will increase its \
contribution to the Australian Curriculum, Assessment and Reporting Authority \
(ACARA) to support further development of the Australian Curriculum from \
Foundation to Year 12, the National Assessment Program to measure student progress \
against the National Curriculum, and the National Data and Collection and Reporting \
Program, including the MySchool website. \
   DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Overview and resources \
17 \
The review of funding for schooling is the next major step in the reform agenda, and \
the Government is committed to developing a new system that is fair, transparent and \
sustainable and that supports delivery of resources all schools need to provide every \
child with a world-class education. Funding has been confirmed in this budget to \
support the further technical and analytical work necessary to inform new school \
funding arrangements. \
To support our school students, the 2012-13 Budget is also delivering additional \
investment in Science and Maths within our schools. A high quality school science and \
maths education is an essential foundation for Australia\'92s future productivity and \
economic well-being. The Budget will provide additional investment to support the \
Science Connections and Science Partnerships programs, student participation in the \
international Science and Mathematics Olympiads, and provide national support for \
Advice for Teachers. \
To improve the employment outcomes  for Australians, the Government has \
announced that from 1 July 2013, the  new Remote Jobs and Community Program \
(RJCP) will provide a more integrated  and flexible approach, providing better \
participation and employment services for people living in remote areas of Australia. \
The four main programs currently delivering employment and participation services \
and community development in remote Australia \'96 Job Services Australia, Disability \
Employment Services, Community Development Employment Projects and the \
Indigenous Employment Program \'96 will be rolled into the new integrated service.  \
The Government will continue to invest in the education of children across the \
Northern Territory through the Stronger Futures package. Funding will be provided to \
retain 200 additional teaching positions in Northern Territory schools, along with \
additional funding to build teacher housing and deliver quality teaching initiatives. \
The Government will also continue to provide funding for the School Nutrition \
Program and the enhanced Improving School Attendance through Welfare Reform \
measure.  \
These initiatives, as well as further funding for the Teach Remote measure, the \
Clontarf Foundation and the extension of  the Cape York Welfare Reform Trial will \
assist in meeting the Government\'92s Closing the Gap targets.  \
Additional support is also being provided through the Budget to support mature age \
job seekers. The new Experience+ Corporate Champions program will provide \
assistance to build workplaces that value the experience of older Australians and \
increase recruitment of mature aged job  seekers. The Experience+ Career Advice \
service will also be extended until 30 June 2016. Eligible job seekers aged 55 years and \
over will receive assistance for intensive job preparations. The service will support a \
review of the person\'92s skills and training needs and support workers in job search \
techniques including resume preparation and interview skills. DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Overview and resources \
18 \
In the 2012-13 Budget, the Government is helping many income support allowance \
recipients to meet cost of living pressures through a new twice-yearly lump sum \
Supplementary Allowance. This measure is complemented by a doubling of the Liquid \
Assets Waiting Period thresholds to assist people in managing unanticipated expenses. \
Throughout the coming year, the department will also continue to assist the \
Government to maintain the successful operation of the national workplace relations \
system in particular the provision of policy advice to Government concerning its \
response to any recommendations which might be made by the panel undertaking the \
post implementation review of the Fair Work Act 2009. \
The department will continue to work closely and cooperatively with its portfolio \
agencies, other government agencies (Commonwealth, state and territory), advisory \
bodies, businesses, professional associations, community organisations and citizens in \
achieving its objectives. In line with this objective and as part of the 2012-13 Budget, \
the department will deliver over four years a single Whole of Government \
Parliamentary Workflow Solution across 41 agencies leading to significant efficiencies. \
   DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Overview and resources \
19 \
1.2 AGENCY RESOURCE STATEMENT\
Table 1.1 shows the total resources from all sources. The table summarises how \
resources will be applied by outcome and by administered and departmental \
classification. \
Table 1.1: Department of Education, Employment and Workplace Relations \
Resource Statement \'97 Budget Estimates for 2012-13 as at Budget May 2012\
   \
Estimate Proposed Total Actual\
of prior +\
at Budget\
=\
estimate available\
year amounts appropriation\
available in\
2012-13 2012-13 2012-13 2011-12\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
O  rd in a  ry  a  n n u a  l  se  rv ic  e  s\
1\
D e  p a  rt me  n t a  l  a  p p ro p ria  t io n\
Prio r year departmental appropriation\
2\
                              -                              -                              - -                             \
Depa rtmental appropriation\
3\
                              -        616,120       616,120 809,280       \
s31 Relevant agency receipts\
4\
                              -          52,914         52,914 23,200         \
Tota l                   -         669,034        669,034        832,480\
A d min is t e re d   e xp e n se s\
Ou tc o me 1                              -         430,231      417,601 430,231       \
Ou tc o me 2                              -         518,831      556,701 518,831       \
Ou tc o me 3                              -      2,590,817   2,613,445 2,590,817    \
Ou tc o me 4                              -         213,637      216,993 213,637       \
Ou tc o me 5                              -                    -                  1,009,181 -    \
T o t a  l  -                    3,753,516    3,753,516     4,813,921\
T o t a  l  o rd in a  ry   a  n n u a  l  se  rvic  e  s     A  -                    4,422,550    4,422,550     5,646,401\
O t h e r  se rv ic e s\
5\
A d min is t e re d   e xp e n se s\
S p e c if ic   p a yme n t s   t o   S t a t e s,  \
A C T ,   N T   a  n d   lo c  a  l  g o ve  rn me  n t\
Outcome 2 -                            177,058        177,058        322,134\
T o t a  l  -                    177,058        177,058        322,134\
D e  p a  rt me  n t a  l  n o n -  o p e  ra  t in g\
Equity  injec tions  -                                         6,520            6,520          12,132\
T o t a  l  -                           6,520 6,520         12,132         \
T o t a  l  o t h e  r  se  rv ic  e  s   B  -                          183,578        183,578        334,266\
T o t a  l  a  va  ila  b le   a  n n u a  l \
a  p p ro p ria  t io n s  -                    4,606,128 4,606,128  5,980,667    DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Overview and resources \
20 \
Table 1.1: Department of Education, Employment and Workplace Relations \
Resource Statement \'97 Budget Estimates for 2012-13 as at Budget May 2012 \
(continued)  \
   \
Estimate Proposed Total Actual\
of prior +\
at Budget\
=\
estimate available\
year amounts appropriation\
available in\
2012-13 2012-13 2012-13 2011-12\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
S  p e  c  ia  l  a  p p ro p ria  t io n s\
S  p e  c  ia  l  a  p p ro p ria  t io n s  limit e  d\
 by c rite ria /e ntitle me nt\
A New Tax System (Family Assistance)\
Act 1999                             -     4,437,338     4,437,338 4,178,514    \
Asbestos-  related Claims  (Management \
of Commonwealth Liabilities) Ac t 2005                             -          27,890          27,890 23,270         \
Coal Mining   Industry (Long Se rvice \
Leave Funding) Ac t 1992                             -        152,423        152,423 152,423       \
Higher Education Support Ac t 2003                             -                  -                   - 3,567,346    \
Indigenous Education (Targeted \
Assistance) Act 2000                             -        130,047        130,047 150,941       \
Safety, Rehabilitation and \
Compensation Act 1988                             -          39,661          39,661 34,790         \
Sc hools Assistance Act 2008                             -    8,183,019    8,183,019 7,587,740    \
Social Security (Administration) Act 1999                             -  14,761,161  14,761,161 15,638,806  \
Student Assistance Ac t 1973                     -        279,842        279,842        276,998\
T o t a  l  sp e  c  ia  l  a  p p ro p ria  t io n s  C  -                    28,011,381  28,011,381 31,610,828  \
T o t a  l  a  p p ro p ria  t io n s  e  xc  lu d in g\
  S  p e  c  ia  l  A c  c  o u n t s  -                   32,617,509 32,617,509 37,591,495  DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Overview and resources \
21 \
Table 1.1: Department of Education, Employment and Workplace Relations \
Resource Statement \'97 Budget Estimates for 2012-13 as at Budget May 2012 \
(continued)  \
   \
Estimate Proposed Total Actual\
of prior +\
at Budget\
=\
estimate available\
year amounts appropriation\
available in\
2012-13 2012-13 2012-13 2011-12\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
S  p e  c  ia  l  A c  c  o u n t s\
Opening balance\
6\
            6,494                   -           6,494 6,494           \
Non- appropriation  receipts  to\
 Special Accounts                   275 -              275              107,606       \
T o t a  l  S  p e  c  ia  l  A c  c  o u n t   D            275 6,494              6,769           114,100       \
T o t a  l  re  so u rc  in g\
A+B+C+D            32,617,784 6,494  32,624,278  37,705,595  \
Less appropriations drawn  from\
annual or spec ial appropriations above\
and c redited  to  spec ia l accounts\
and/or CAC Ac t bodies  through \
annual approp riations                   35,750 -         35,750         49,379         \
T o t a  l  n e  t   re  so u rc  in g   f o r  a  g e  n c  y  \
D e  p a  rt me  n t   o f   Ed u c  a  t io n ,  \
Emp lo yme  n t   a  n d   W o rkp la  c  e  \
R e  la  t io n s            32,582,034 6,494  32,588,528  37,656,216  \
1 \
Appropriation Bill  (No.1) 2012- 13\
2\
 Estimated adjusted balance carried  fo rward  from previous year\
3 \
Inc ludes an amount of $45.094m  in 2012- 13  for the Departmental Capita l Budget  (re fe r  to  table 3.2.5  fo r\
furthe r de ta ils). For accounting pu rposes  th is amount has been designated as  'contributions by owners'.\
4\
 s31 Relevant Agency receipts - estimate\
5\
Appropriation Bill  (No.2) 2012- 13\
6 \
Estimated opening balanc e for spec ial ac c ounts (less \'91Spec ial Public Money\'92 held in ac c ounts like\
Other Trust Monies accoun ts  (OTM), Se rvices  fo r othe r Gove rnment and Non- agency Bodies \
accounts  (SOG), or Se rvices  fo r Other En tities and Trust Moneys Spec ia l accoun ts  (SOETM)).\
For  furthe r  in formation on  spec ia l accoun ts see Table 3.1.2.\
Reader no te : All  figures are GST exc lusive.DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Overview and resources \
22 \
Table 1.1: Department of Education, Employment and Workplace Relations \
Resource Statement \'97 Budget Estimates for 2012-13 as at Budget May 2012 \
(continued)  \
Third party payments from and on behalf of other agencies \
2012-13 2011-12\
$'000 $'000\
Receipts received from other agencies for the provision of services\
(disclosed above w ithin Departmental section 31) 52,914                   23,200 \
     20,182,592  19,560,458\
(disclosed above)\
Payments made to CAC Act bodies w ithin the Portfolio \
Australian Institute for Teaching and School Leadership\
Annual Appropriation Bill 1 - Outcome 2 14,000                   22,201 \
Australian Curriculum, Assessment and Reporting Authority\
Annual Appropriation Bill 1 - Outcome 2 15,450                   12,775 \
Comc ar e\
Annual Appropriation Bill 1 - Outcome 4 6,300                     14,403 \
Payments made by other agencies on behalf of Department of Education, \
Employment and Workplace RelationsDEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Overview and resources \
23 \
1.3 BUDGET MEASURES\
Budget measures relating to the Department of Education, Employment and \
Workplace Relations are detailed in Budget Paper No. 2 and are summarised below.  \
Table 1.2: Department of Education, Employment and Workplace Relations \
2012-13 Budget measures \
   \
Program 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Revenue measures\
Ministerial Standing Council on Tertiary \
Education, Skills and Employment - \
Secretariat services 5.5\
Administered revenues 1,222   -              -              -               -               \
Departmental revenues -           -              -              -               -               \
Total 1,222   -              -              -               -               \
Total Revenue Measures\
Administered revenues 1,222   -              -              -               -               \
Departmental revenues -           -              -              -               -               \
Total 1,222   -              -              -               -               \
Expense measures\
Whole-of-Government Parliamentary \
Workflow Solution All\
Administered expenses -           -              -              -               -               \
Departmental expenses 169      1,232      1,046      439          -               \
Total 169      1,232      1,046      439          -               \
Community Development Employment Projects \
(CDEP) program - continuation of \
grandfathered w age arrangements 1, 3.2\
Administered expenses (1,373)  (36,744)   (34,264)   (33,340)    (33,254)    \
Departmental expenses -           (2,000)     (2,000)     (2,000)      (2,000)      \
Total   (38,744) (1,373)   (36,264)   (35,340)    (35,254)    \
Stronger Futures in the Northern Territory - \
Continued support for Creches established \
under the Northern Territory Emergency \
Response 1.1\
Administered expenses -           2,502      nfp nfp nfp\
Departmental expenses -           181         nfp nfp nfp\
Total -           2,683      nfp nfp nfp\
Adjustment to the HECS-HELP Benefit for \
Early Childhood Education Teachers 1.1\
Administered expenses -           -              -              -               -               \
Departmental expenses -           -              -              -               -               \
Total -           -              -              -               -               \
Home Interaction Program for Parents and \
Youngsters 1.1\
Administered expenses -           9,659      13,212    16,170     15,672     \
Departmental expenses -           371         374         120          121          \
Total -           10,030    13,586    16,290     15,793     DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Overview and resources \
24 \
Table 1.2: Department of Education, Employment and Workplace Relations \
2012-13 Budget measures (continued) \
Program 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Jobs, Education and Training Child Care Fee \
Assistance program - introduction of a \
package of reforms 1.1, 1.2\
Administered expenses -           33,633    37,129    61,700     85,213     \
Departmental expenses -           -              -              -               -               \
Total -           33,633    37,129    61,700     85,213     \
Clontarf Foundation and Engagement \
Strategies for Indigenous students 2.2\
Administered expenses -           1,601      1,751      800          -               \
Departmental expenses -           252         257         127          -               \
Total -           1,853      2,008      927          -               \
Schools - Teach Remote - Stage Tw o 2.2\
Administered expenses -           3,200      5,550      5,250       -               \
Departmental expenses -           109         110         56            -               \
Total -           3,309      5,660      5,306       -               \
Stronger Futures in the Northern Territory - \
Reducing Substance Abuse Program - \
redirection 2.2\
Administered expenses -           (456)        (931)        (947)         (966)         \
Departmental expenses -           -              -              -               -               \
Total -           (456)        (931)        (947)         (966)         \
Stronger Futures in the Northern Territory - \
Closing the Gap - Intensive Literacy and \
Numeracy Programs for Underachieving \
Indigenous Students Initiative - redirection of \
funding 2.2\
Administered expenses -           (8,000)     (16,100)   (16,100)    (16,100)    \
Departmental expenses -           -              -              -               -               \
Total -           (8,000)     (16,100)   (16,100)    (16,100)    \
Stronger Futures in the Northern Territory - \
Building a Quality School Workforce 2.2\
Administered expenses -           17,356    nfp nfp nfp\
Departmental expenses -           232         nfp nfp nfp\
Total -           17,588    nfp nfp nfp\
Stronger Futures in the Northern Territory - \
Community Festivals for Education \
Engagement - redirection 2.2\
Administered expenses -           (1,525)     (3,050)     (3,050)      (3,050)      \
Departmental expenses -           -              -              -               -               \
Total -           (1,525)     (3,050)     (3,050)      (3,050)      \
Stronger Futures in the Northern Territory - \
Indigenous Youth Mobility Program - \
redirection 2.2\
Administered expenses -           (6,016)     (7,090)     (7,208)      (7,353)      \
Departmental expenses -           -              -              -               -               \
Total -           (6,016)     (7,090)     (7,208)      (7,353)      DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Overview and resources \
25 \
Table 1.2: Department of Education, Employment and Workplace Relations \
2012-13 Budget measures (continued) \
   \
Program 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Stronger Futures in the Northern Territory - \
Indigenous Youth Leadership Program - \
suspension 2.2\
Administered expenses -            (929)        (3,031)     (7,242)      (11,561)    \
Departmental expenses -            -              -              -               -               \
Total -            (929)        (3,031)     (7,242)      (11,561)    \
Stronger Futures in the Northern Territory -\
School Nutrition Program - continuation of \
funding arrangements 2.2\
Administered expenses -            8,658      nfp nfp nfp\
Departmental expenses -            558         nfp nfp nfp\
Total -            9,216      nfp nfp nfp\
Cape York Welfare Reform Trial - extension 2.2, 2.12\
Administered expenses -            940         961         -               -               \
Departmental expenses -            58           59           -               -               \
Total -            998         1,020      -               -               \
Schools -Student Resilience and Wellbeing \
Program - establishment 2.3\
Administered expenses (1,333)   (2,089)     (2,418)     (4,410)      -               \
Departmental expenses -            -              -              -               -               \
Total (1,333)   (2,089)     (2,418)     (4,410)      -               \
Schools - One Laptop per Child Australia 2.3\
Administered expenses 11,700   -              -              -               -               \
Departmental expenses -            -              -              -               -               \
Total 11,700   -              -              -               -               \
Queen Elizabeth II Diamond Jubilee \
Essay Competition - establishment 2.3\
Administered expenses -            -              -              -               -               \
Departmental expenses -            -              -              -               -               \
Total -            -              -              -               -               \
Australian Curriculum, Assessment and \
Reporting Authority - additional funding 2.3\
Administered expenses -            6,178      5,147      3,015       2,682       \
Departmental expenses -            -              -              -               -               \
Total -            6,178      5,147      3,015       2,682       \
Schools - Australian Baccalaureate - \
postpone development 2.3\
Administered expenses -            -              (2,182)     (4,493)      (1,873)      \
Departmental expenses -            -              -              -               -               \
Total -            -              (2,182)     (4,493)      (1,873)      DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Overview and resources \
26 \
Table 1.2: Department of Education, Employment and Workplace Relations \
2012-13 Budget measures (continued) \
   \
Program 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Review of Funding for Schooling - additional \
w ork  2.3\
Administered expenses -           4,793      557         -               -               \
Departmental expenses -           275         139         -               -               \
Total -           5,068      696         -               -               \
Schools -National Trade Cadetships - \
postponement 2.3\
Administered expenses (3,100)  (9,400)     -              -               -               \
Departmental expenses -           -              -              -               -               \
Total (3,100)  (9,400)     -              -               -               \
School Enrolment and Attendance in \
Queensland - continuation 2.3\
Administered expenses -           -              -              -               -               \
Departmental expenses -           332         773         -               -               \
Total -           332         773         -               -               \
Schools - Teach Next Program changes 2.3\
Administered expenses (2,100)  (26)          (16)          -               -               \
Departmental expenses -           -              -              -               -               \
Total (2,100)  (26)          (16)          -               -               \
Digital Productivity - Australian Broadcasting \
Corporation (ABC) Digital Classroom - \
National Online Education Portal 2.3\
Administered expenses -           -              -              -               -               \
Departmental expenses -           -              -              -               -               \
Total -           -              -              -               -               \
Mathematics and science - increasing \
participation in schools and universities 2.3, 2.9\
Administered expenses (2,000)  600         4,650      4,700       4,450       \
Departmental expenses -           -              -              -               -               \
Total (2,000)  600         4,650      4,700       4,450       \
Schools - Digital Education Revolution - \
project pool - redirection 2.5\
Administered expenses    (24,358)              - -              -               -               \
Departmental expenses                  -              - -              -               -               \
Total     (24,358)              - -              -               -               \
Schools - Supporting implementation of the \
More Support for Students w ith Disabilities \
Initiative 2.10\
Administered expenses 138      80           10           -               -               \
Departmental expenses (637)     (368)        (44)          -               -               \
Total (499)     (288)        (34)          -               -               DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Overview and resources \
27 \
Table 1.2: Department of Education, Employment and Workplace Relations \
2012-13 Budget measures (continued) \
   \
Program 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
National Career Development Strategy under \
the National Partnership Agreement on Youth \
Attainment and Transitions - cessation 2.11\
Administered expenses (5,783)  (7,568)     (3,666)     -               -               \
Departmental expenses -           -              -              -               -               \
Total (5,783)  (7,568)     (3,666)     -               -               \
Social and Community Services - Queensland \
pay equity regulation - back pay 2.11\
Administered expenses 554      554         475         -               -               \
Departmental expenses -           -              -              -               -               \
Total 554      554         475         -               -               \
Spreading the Benefits of the Boom - new \
income support supplement 2.12, 3.5\
Administered expenses -           113,213  230,801  236,415   242,123   \
Departmental expenses -           -              -              -               -               \
Total -             230,801 113,213  236,415   242,123   \
Fraud prevention and compliance - increase \
in compliance review activity 2.12, 3.5\
Administered expenses -           (26,014)   (26,080)   (13,073)    -               \
Departmental expenses -           -              -              -               -               \
Total -              (26,080) (26,014)   (13,073)                   -\
Family Tax Benefit Part A - change to age of \
eligibility 2.12, 3.5\
Administered expenses -           1,170      2,733      2,542       2,633       \
Departmental expenses -           -              -              -               -               \
Total -           1,170      2,733      2,542       2,633       \
Portability of Australian Government \
Payments 2.12, 3.5\
Administered expenses -           (917)        (1,902)     (1,957)      (2,014)      \
Departmental expenses -           -              -              -               -               \
Total -           (917)        (1,902)     (1,957)      (2,014)      \
Building Australia's Future Workforce - \
changes to ABSTUDY eligibility 2.12\
Administered expenses -           (730)        (1,331)     (1,384)      (1,418)      \
Departmental expenses -           -              -              -               -               \
Total -           (730)        (1,331)     (1,384)      (1,418)      \
Schools - Rew ard Payments for School \
Improvement - reduction 2.14\
Administered expenses -           -              -              (4,375)      (8,850)      \
Departmental expenses -           -              -              -               -               \
Total -           -              -              (4,375)      (8,850)      DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Overview and resources \
28 \
Table 1.2: Department of Education, Employment and Workplace Relations \
2012-13 Budget measures (continued) \
   \
Program 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Schools - National Rew ards for Great \
Teachers  - amendment 2.15\
Administered expenses -           -              -              -               -               \
Departmental expenses -           -              -              -               -               \
Total -           -              -              -               -               \
Bribie Island Youth Camp Facilities - one-off \
grant 3.1\
Administered expenses 1,900   -              -              -               -               \
Departmental expenses -           -              -              -               -               \
Total 1,900   -              -              -               -               \
Australian Automotive Industry  Structural \
Adjustment Package - Labour Market Element -\
continuation 3.1\
Administered expenses -           -              -              -               -               \
Departmental expenses -           -              -              -               -               \
Total -           -              -              -               -               \
Job Services Australia Outcome Payments - \
simplif  ication 3.1\
Administered expenses -           (7,383)     (12,000)   (12,552)    (12,400)    \
Departmental expenses -           73           -              -               -               \
Total -                (12,000) (7,310)   (12,552)    (12,400)    \
Economic Potential of Senior Australians - \
employment assistance 3.1\
Administered expenses -           4,518      5,789      8,335       7,879       \
Departmental expenses -           767         807         635          641          \
Total -           5,285      6,596      8,970       8,520       \
Economic Potential of Senior Australians - \
'Experience+ Training', 'On-The-Job Support' \
and 'Job Transition Support' programs - \
cessation 3.1\
Administered expenses -           (8,340)     (7,655)     -               -               \
Departmental expenses -           (187)        (214)        -               -               \
Total -           (8,527)     (7,869)     -               -               \
Mature Age Participation - job seeker \
assistance 3.1\
Administered expenses -           1,545      5,117      7,409       10,407     \
Departmental expenses -           388         239         331          335          \
Total -           1,933      5,356      7,740       10,742     \
Employment Services Arrangements - Job \
Placement Fee - changes to activity \
requirements and arrangements 3.1\
Administered expenses -           (40,845)   (42,327)   (40,581)    (38,822)    \
Departmental expenses -           17           -              -               -               \
Total -              (42,327) (40,828)   (40,581)    (38,822)    DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Overview and resources \
29 \
Table 1.2: Department of Education, Employment and Workplace Relations \
2012-13 Budget measures (continued) \
Program 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Seasonal Labour Mobility Program w ith \
Pacific Island Countries and East Timor - \
establishment 3.1\
Administered expenses -           1,148      935         1,265       1,693       \
Departmental expenses -           340         117         349          128          \
Total -           1,488      1,052      1,614       1,821       \
BackTrack  - contribution 3.2\
Administered expenses 200      200         200         200          -               \
Departmental expenses -           -              -              -               -               \
Total 200      200         200         200          -               \
Remote Jobs and Communities Program - \
establishment 3.4\
Administered expenses -           168         108,511  101,435   155,842   \
Departmental expenses -           6,091      7,696      6,783       6,863       \
Total -                 116,207 6,259  108,218   162,705   \
Fraud prevention and compliance - new \
compliance data sources 3.5\
Administered expenses -           (6,853)     (13,817)   (13,926)    (14,028)    \
Departmental expenses -           -              -              -               -               \
Total -                (13,817) (6,853)   (13,926)    (14,028)    \
Means test exemptions for the Western \
Australian Country Fuel Card and the Cost of \
Living Rebate Scheme - extension 3.5\
Administered expenses -           67           69           71            72            \
Departmental expenses -           -              -              -               -               \
Total -           67           69           71            72            \
Weekly income support payments to \
vulnerable Australians - expansion 3.5\
Administered expenses -           -              -              -               -               \
Departmental expenses -           -              -              -               -               \
Total -           -              -              -               -               \
Fraud prevention and compliance - increased \
recovery of high value non-current customer 3.5\
Administered expenses -           -              -              -               -               \
Departmental expenses -           -              -              -               -               \
Total -           -              -              -               -               \
Parenting Payment - changed eligibility for \
1 July 2006 grandfathered recipients 3.5\
Administered expenses -           (129,006) (207,916) (161,043)  (227,043)  \
Departmental expenses -           88           80           81            82            \
Total            (128,918) - (207,836) (160,962)  (226,961)  \
Liquid assets w aiting period - amendment 3.5\
Administered expenses -           -              12,044    12,044     12,044     \
Departmental expenses -           -              -              -               -               \
Total -           -              12,044    12,044     12,044     DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Overview and resources \
30 \
Table 1.2: Department of Education, Employment and Workplace Relations \
2012-13 Budget measures (continued) \
Program 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Total  e xpe ns e   m  e as ur e s\
Administered (25,555) (81,058)   49,865    135,670   161,978   \
Departmental (468)      8,809      9,439      6,921       6,170       \
Total (26,023) (72,249)   59,304    142,591   168,148   \
Capital measures\
Whole-of-Government Parliamentary \
Workflow Solution All\
Administered capital -            -              -              -               -               \
Departmental capital -            1,093      1,148      1,816       2,398       \
Total -            1,093      1,148      1,816       2,398       \
Economic Potential of Senior Australians - \
employment assistance 3.1\
Administered capital -            -              -              -               -               \
Departmental capital -            156         -              -               -               \
Total -            156         -              -               -               \
Remote Jobs and Communities Program - \
establishment 3.4\
Administered capital -            -              -              -               -               \
Departmental capital -            4,600      -              -               -               \
Total -            4,600      -              -               -               \
Fraud prevention and compliance - new \
compliance data sources 3.5\
Administered capital -            -              -              -               -               \
Departmental capital -            -              -              -               -               \
Total -            -              -              -               -               \
Total capital measures\
Administered -            -              -              -               -               \
Departmental -            5,849      1,148      1,816       2,398       \
Total -            5,849      1,148      1,816       2,398       \
Prepared on a Government Finance Statistics (fiscal) basisDEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 1 \
31 \
Section 2: Outcomes and planned performance \
2.1 OUTCOMES AND PERFORMANCE INFORMATION\
Government outcomes are the intended results, impacts or consequences of actions by \
the Government on the Australian community. Commonwealth programs are the \
primary vehicle by which government agencies achieve the intended results of their \
outcome statements. Agencies are required to identify the programs which contribute \
to Government outcomes over the Budget and forward years. \
Each outcome is described below together with its related programs, specifying the \
performance indicators and targets used to assess and monitor the performance of the \
department in achieving Government outcomes. \
Outcome 1: Improved access to quality services that support early childhood \
learning and care for children through a national quality framework, agreed \
national standards, investment in infrastructure, and support for parents, carers, \
services and the workforce \
Outcome 1 strategy \
In this Budget, the Government is making a significant investment in child care \
assistance over the next four years to help parents get the training and skills they need \
to enter or re-enter the workforce. Jobs, Education and Training Child Care Fee \
Assistance (JETCCFA) provides assistance with child care fees for parents on income \
support, mostly sole parents, while they are studying or training to get the skills they \
need to help them find a job. The JETCCFA program will be better aligned with the \
Government\'92s jobs policy and skills agendas and help improve employment outcomes \
for parents.   \
Access to early literacy and numeracy programs will be improved with the extension \
of the Home Interaction Program for Parents and Youngsters (HIPPY), which is a \
two-year, home-based parenting and early childhood enrichment program targeted to \
disadvantaged communities. An additional fifty sites are to be rolled out in Indigenous \
communities in remote regions. As a result, around 750 children from the remote \
Indigenous sites will enrol in HIPPY in 2014. HIPPY will also be extended to an \
additional cohort of children in the existing 50 locations. As a result of this additional \
cohort, around 1700 children will enrol in HIPPY in 2013. \
   DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 1 \
32 \
All of these new measures build on the Government\'92s early childhood education and \
care agenda. There is strong evidence that programs aimed at alleviating disadvantage \
during the early years of life are more effective in improving outcomes for the child \
and achieving higher returns on investment than remedial interventions later in life. \
Even for children who are not disadvantaged, high quality early childhood \
experiences have a positive effect on a child\'92s development, transition to school and \
outcomes in later life. \
In July 2009, the Council of Australian Governments (COAG) agreed to a National \
Early Childhood Development (ECD) Strategy with the vision that by 2020 all children \
have the best start in life to create a better future for themselves and for the nation. \
The strategy will help all levels of government build a more effective and better \
coordinated national early childhood development system and identifies the early \
childhood development outcomes that all  governments are seeking to achieve for \
children. These are: \
\'95 children are born and remain healthy \
\'95 children\'92s environments are nurturing, culturally appropriate and safe \
\'95 children have the knowledge and skills for life and learning \
\'95 children benefit from better social inclusion and reduced disadvantage, especially \
Indigenous children \
\'95 children are engaged in and benefiting from educational opportunities \
\'95 families are confident and have the capabilities to support their children\'92s \
development \
\'95 quality early childhood development services that support workforce participation \
choices for families. \
The Government is continuing to work with state and territory governments on \
implementing the strategy. \
Together with universal access to early  childhood education, the National Quality \
Agenda for Early Childhood Education and Care is the first major tranche of reform \
under the strategy. The Agenda will ensure national consistency in early childhood \
education and child care services. The new National Quality Framework will: improve \
staff to child ratios; introduce new staff qualification requirements; and establish a \
quality rating system. A new national body, the Australian Children\'92s Education and \
Care Quality Authority (ACECQA), will guide and monitor implementation. \
Transition to the new system began on 1 July 2010, with full implementation to occur \
from 1 January 2012 until 2020.   DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 1 \
33 \
Data from the second national Australian Early Development Index (AEDI) collection \
will be available in 2013. This data, providing a snapshot of how children across \
Australia are developing prior to reaching school, will build on the information \
already available from the 2009 collection. The availability of two national AEDI \
datasets will help governments (at all three tiers) and community organisations \
monitor progress and inform early childhood policy and planning right across \
education, health and community services. \
The Government is committed to lifting the quality of centre-based Budget Based \
Funded early childhood services. Budget Based Funded early childhood services are \
funded by the Australian Government to provide child care and early learning \
opportunities where the market would otherwise fail to deliver child care. These \
services predominantly operate in rural,  remote and Aboriginal and Torres Strait \
Islander communities. \
The department is also continuing to progress other key COAG commitments that \
underpin the National ECD Strategy, including the National Partnership Agreement \
on Early Childhood Education, which underpins the Government\'92s commitment to \
universal access to early learning for all children  in  the  year  before  formal  schooling \
and the establishment of Children and Family Centres through the National \
Partnership Agreement on Indigenous ECD. \
The Government is committed to supporting, training and retaining experienced and \
qualified early childhood educators. A well trained early childhood workforce is \
essential in delivering high quality early  childhood services and achieving the best \
outcomes for children. The department is continuing to manage a range of initiatives \
such as improving access to Recognition of Prior Learning, removing TAFE fees for \
approved early childhood qualifications and reducing university HELP debts for early \
childhood teachers. DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 1 \
34 \
Table 2.1A Budgeted expenses and resources for Outcome 1  \
Contributions to Outcome 1 \
Program 1.1 Support for the Child Care System \
Program objective \
To support child care services so that more families can access quality early childhood \
education and childcare services. This program helps families to participate in the \
social and economic life of the community as it: \
\'95 promotes and supports quality child care \
\'95 assists services to improve access and inclusion for children and families with \
special and/or additional needs \
\'95 provides professional support to build the capacity of the child care sector \
2011-12 2012-13\
Estimated Estimated\
actual expenses\
expenses\
$'000 $'000\
Program 1.1: Support for the Child Care System\
Administered expenses\
Ordinary annual services (Appropriation Bill No. 1)         414,601          427,231 \
Total for Program 1.1         414,601          427,231 \
Program 1.2: Child Care Fee Assistance\
Administered expenses\
Special appropriations      4,178,515       4,437,338 \
Total for Program 1.2      4,178,515       4,437,338 \
Program 1.3: Early Childhood Education\
Administered expenses\
Ordinary annual services (Appropriation Bill No. 1)             3,000              3,000 \
Total for Program 1.3             3,000              3,000 \
Outcome 1 Totals by appropriation type\
Administered Expenses\
Ordinary annual services (Appropriation Bill No. 1)         417,601          430,231 \
Special appropriations      4,178,515       4,437,338 \
Departmental expenses\
Departmental appropriation \
1\
           87,720            84,957 \
Expenses not requiring appropriation in the Budget year \
2\
           12,355            12,643 \
Total expenses for Outcome 1      4,696,191       4,965,169 \
2011-12 2012-13\
Average Staffing Level (number)               421 461               \
Outcome 1: Improve access to quality services that support \
early childhood learning and care for children through a national \
quality framew ork, agreed national standards, investment in \
infrastructure and support for parents, carers, services and \
w or k for ce .\
1  \
Departmental Appropria tion comb ines  "Ord inary annual services  (App ropria tion Bills No . 1 & 3)"  and  "Revenue  from \
independent sources  (s31)".\
2 \
Expenses not  requiring appropria tion   in   the Budget year  is made up of Deprec ia tion Expense, Amortisa tion \
Expense, Makegood Expense, and Audit Fees.  DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 1 \
35 \
\'95 supports the sustainability of child care for all Australian children and families \
including in areas and/or under circumstances where services would not otherwise \
be available \
\'95 develops, maintains and disseminates information to assist families to make \
informed decisions about child care and the related support programs and services \
provided or funded by the Government. \
Additional funding provided to centre-based Budget Based Funded early childhood \
services is making a significant start towards helping these services meet the new \
National Quality Standards. The funding, which commenced from 2010\'9611, is targeted \
at improving the facilities these services  operate from, the qualifications of staff \
working in these services, and their governance and administrative capacity.  \
The program provides funding to complete 38 priority early learning and care centres \
funded in the 2008-09 Budget.  \
The effectiveness indicators provide details on the trend in the number of children \
with additional needs using government approved child care services. This is seen as a \
good measure of the overall effectiveness  of access to quality child care and early \
learning services, as families with children from the target groups identified often find \
it more difficult to access child care that is appropriate to their special needs.  \
The National Quality Framework is a COAG initiative that is operationalised under a \
National Partnership (NP) using Treasury funding. The NP sets out indicators that \
ACECQA is required to provide reports  against. The department has no ongoing \
indicators for the National Quality Framework that need to be reported. \
Administered items \
\'95 Child Care Services Support\'97the main sub-elements of this administered item \
include: \
\'96 community support\'97delivers improved access to child care through support \
for establishment of new services and maintenance of services, especially in \
areas where the market would otherwise fail to provide child care services \
\'96 child care quality support\'97aims to ensure that children in care have \
stimulating, positive experiences and interactions that will foster all aspects of \
their development and promote quality care for all children in approved \
Australian child care services \
\'96 inclusion and professional support\'97promotes and maintains high quality care \
and inclusion for all children in eligible child care services, by increasing the \
capacity of the service and the skill level of carers and educators through the \
provision of professional development and inclusion support DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 1 \
36 \
\'96 program support\'97supports the development, maintenance and dissemination \
of information to assist families to make informed decisions about child care and \
the related support programs and services provided or funded by the \
Government. A range of products and services are funded to assist parents and \
service providers, including the Australian Early Development Index and the \
Home Interaction Program for Parents and Youngsters. \
\'95 Jobs, Education and Training Child Care Fee Assistance (JETCCFA)\'97provides \
eligible parents with extra financial assistance to help with the cost of approved \
child care while undertaking activities such as job search, work, study, training or \
rehabilitation to help them to enter or re-enter the workforce. The significant \
investment the Government is making in JETCCFA over the next four years will \
assist around 130 000 parents across the country to enter the workforce and provide \
for their families. The program will be better aligned with the Government\'92s jobs \
policy and skills agendas as well as helping to improve employment outcomes for \
parents. \
Table 2.1.1 Administered expenses for Program 1.1\
Program 1.1 deliverables \
Revised \
budget \
2011\'9612 \
Budget \
2012\'9613 2013\'9614 2014\'9615 2015\'9616 \
Child Care Services Support \
Number of child care services \
receiving sustainability assistance 2300 2300 2300 2300 2300 \
Number of child care services \
receiving establishment assistance 250 250 250 250 250 \
Number of Budget Based Funded \
Services 344 344 344 344  344 \
Jobs, Education and Training Child Care Fee Assistance \
Number of children in child care 52 000 44 300 46 900 49 000 50 800 \
Number of parents assisted 35 600 30 400 32 100 33 600 34 800 \
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Annual administered expenses:\
Child Care Services Support  326,526   345,312  340,221  362,177  353,424 \
Jobs Education and Training Child Care \
Fee Assistance  (JETCCFA)     88,075     81,919    78,980  104,677  128,768 \
Total  pr ogr am   e xpe ns e s       414,601      427,231    419,201    466,854    482,192   DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 1 \
37 \
Program 1.1 key performance indicators \
Revised \
budget \
2011\'9612 \
Budget \
2012\'9613 2013\'9614 2014\'9615 2015\'9616 \
Growth in the number of children \
with additional needs using \
government approved child care \
services\'97by target group: \
\'95 Children with disability 3% 3% 3% 3% 3% \
\'95 Aboriginal, Torres Strait and \
Australian South Sea Islander \
children 2% 2% 2% 2% 2% \
\'95 Children from non-English \
backgrounds 13% 13% 13% 13% 13% \
Program 1.2 Child Care Fee Assistance \
Program objective \
To assist families with the cost of child  care. The provision of this assistance means \
more families are able to access quality child care services. \
The effectiveness indicator provides details on the child care out-of-pocket expenses as \
a proportion of weekly disposable income after child care subsidies. This is seen as a \
good measure of overall affordability of access to quality services that support early \
childhood learning and care.  \
Administered items \
\'95 Child Care Benefit (CCB)\'97assists parents with the cost of approved and registered \
child care. The payment of CCB varies depending on family income, the number of \
children in care, the hours of care, and the type of child care used. Low income \
families receive the highest rate of CCB. \
\'95 Child Care Rebate (CCR)\'97covers families  for 50 per cent of their out-of-pocket \
approved child care expenses after CCB  has been received, up to an annual \
maximum of $7500 per child. This assistance will help eligible working parents \
with the cost of child care, if they are using approved child care for work-related \
reasons.  DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 1 \
38 \
Table 2.1.2 Administered expenses Program 1.2\
Program 1.2 deliverables \
Revised \
budget \
2011\'9612 \
Budget \
2012\'9613 2013\'9614 2014\'9615 2015\'9616 \
Child Care Benefit \
Number of children using approved \
child care places \
1 303 \
000 \
1 321 \
000 \
1 322 \
000 \
1 339 \
000 \
1 347 \
000 \
Number of families using approved \
child care services 929 000 941 000 948 000 951 000 956 000 \
Number of families using approved \
child care services and receiving a \
child care payment (percentage of \
families who use care and receive \
a payment) \
906 000 \
(98%) \
918 000 \
(98%) \
925 000 \
(98%) \
928 000 \
(98%) \
933 000 \
(98%) \
Number of families receiving both \
Child Care Benefit and Child Care \
Rebate 651 000 659 000 663 000 661 000 657 000 \
Number of families receiving only \
Child Care Benefit 121 000 121 000 120 000 119 000 118 000 \
Number of families receiving only \
Child Care Rebate 134 000 138 000 142 000 148 000 157 000 \
Number of eligible approved \
services 16 000 16 200 16 400 16 500 16 600 \
Program 1.2 key performance indicators \
Percentage of child care out-ofpocket expenses as a proportion of \
weekly disposable income after \
child care subsidies 8 to 12% 8 to 12% 8 to 12% 8 to 12% 8 to 12% \
   \
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Special Appropriations:\
A New Tax System  (Fami  l y Assi stance) \
(Admi ni s trati on)  Ac t  1999\
Child Care Benefit   2,342,852   2,444,197  2,555,561    2,632,024  2,707,810 \
Child Care Rebate   1,835,663   1,993,141  2,246,648    2,541,409  2,804,516 \
Total program expenses    4,178,515   4,437,338  4,802,209    5,173,433  5,512,326   DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 1 \
39 \
Program 1.3 Early Childhood Education \
Program objective \
To improve access to high quality early childhood education and child care, to support \
optimal child development in the early years and prepare children for formal \
schooling.1  \
To achieve these goals a number of National Partnership Agreements have been \
entered into: \
\'95 The National Partnership Agreement on  the National Quality Agenda for Early \
Childhood Education and Care\'97will establish a National Quality Framework for \
early childhood education and care and Outside School Hours Care services. The \
Framework, which commenced on 1 January 2012, will also facilitate the provision \
to families of quality information to help them make informed choices about \
services. \
\'95 The National Partnership Agreement on Early Childhood Education\'97aims that by \
2013 every child will have access to a preschool program in the 12 months prior to \
full-time schooling. The preschool program is to be delivered by a four year \
university qualified early childhood teacher, in accordance with a national early \
years learning framework, for 15 hours a week, 40 weeks a year. It will be accessible \
across a diversity of settings, in a form that meets the needs of parents and in a \
manner that ensures cost does not present a barrier to access. \
\'95 Children and Family Centres\'97as part of the National Partnership Agreement on \
Indigenous Early Childhood Development, 38 Children and Family Centres have \
been announced and will be established across Australia by June 2014. These will \
deliver integrated services that offer early learning, child care and family support \
programs. Children and Family Centres are  targeted at addressing the needs of \
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander families and their young children and will \
also provide services to all families in the community. \
\'95 The National Partnership Agreement on TAFE Fee Waivers for Child Care \
Qualifications\'97supports individuals, including existing child care workers, to gain \
a vocational education and training qualification in early childhood care. This \
funding removes the regulated course fees for diplomas and advanced diplomas in \
Children\'92s Services, delivered by a TAFE  institute or other government training \
provider.  \
                                                          \
1\'a0\'a0 The Indigenous Education Program funding of $11 million per calendar year for preschools under the \
Indigenous Education (Targeted Assistance) Act 2000 will provide assistance to early education providers to \
ensure access for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander children. This program is reported under \
Outcome 2.\'a0\'a0DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 1 \
40 \
The Government is working in partnership with the states and territories under COAG \
and through the Intergovernmental Agreement on Federal Financial relations to \
ensure the effective implementation of this program including the achievement of the \
outcomes. The delivery of the universal access to early childhood education is a state \
and territory responsibility and depends on Commonwealth and state and territory \
funding.  \
Linked to: Treasury\'92s Specific Purpose Payments (SPPs)\'97refer to Budget Paper 3 \
(Australia\'92s Federal Relations), which includes SPP arrangements with the states and \
territories. \
Administered items \
Total Commonwealth funding for universal access to early childhood education \
($970 million over five years to 30 June 2013) is allocated in accordance with the \
National Partnership Agreement on Early  Childhood Education (NP ECE). Of this \
funding, $15 million is for research, evaluation and data development which aims to \
inform the implementation of universal access to early childhood education program \
(see table 2.1.3). \
Table 2.1.3 Administered expenses for Program 1.3\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Annual administered expenses:\
Early Childhood Education - Universal \
Access\
      3,000      3,000              -              -              - \
Total program expenses       3,000      3,000 -            -            -              DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 1 \
41 \
Program 1.3 key performance indicators \
Revised \
budget \
2011\'9612 \
Budget \
2012\'9613 2013\'9614 2014\'9615 2015\'9616 \
Universal access to Early Childhood Education (NP ECE) \
Percentage of all children enrolled \
in preschool 83% 95% 95% 95% 95% \
Percentage of Indigenous children \
enrolled in preschool 78% 95% 95% 95% 95% \
Percentage of Indigenous children \
enrolled in preschool in remote \
areas\
2\
 91% 95% 95% 95% 95% \
Percentage of children enrolled in \
an early childhood education \
program that is available for at \
least 15 hours a week\
3\
 \'96 95% 95% 95% 95% \
Outcome 1 Departmental outputs \
Table 2.1B  Performance information for Outcome 1 departmental outputs  \
Performance indicator 2012\'9613 estimate \
Program management \
Services provided by Australian Government agencies \
(e.g. Centrelink) satisfy performance requirements \
DEEWR requirements met \
                                                          \
2\
The ABS advises caution in the use of single year of age Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander population \
projection data when calculating indicators such as rates, due to the inherent uncertainty in single year \
of age estimates as a result of quality issues associated with the source data assumptions used to derive \
estimates, and issues associated with modeling small numbers. Nevertheless, the ABS recommends that \
the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander population projections are the best current source of data for \
calculating and reporting Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander preschool enrolment rates, including by \
remoteness.\
3 New key performance indicator introduced in response to the ANAO report  Administration of the \
National Partnership on Early Childhood Education, November 2011. DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 2 \
42 \
Outcome 2: Improved learning and literacy, numeracy and educational \
attainment for school students, through funding for quality teaching and \
learning environments, workplace learning and career advice \
Outcome 2 strategy \
The overarching policy framework for the Government\'92s reform agenda is set by the \
National Education Agreement and the Melbourne Declaration on Educational Goals \
for Young Australians. The National Education Agreement includes a statement of \
objectives and outcomes for all schools, as well as a clear framework for performance \
reporting.  \
The Government commissioned an independent review of funding for schooling, \
chaired  by  Mr  David  Gonski  AC,  in  2010.  The  review  panel  report  in  early  2012  and \
the Government\'92s high-level response  outlining a comprehensive consultation \
framework. \
The review of funding for schools is the next major step in the reform agenda, and the \
Government is committed to developing a new system that is fair, transparent and \
sustainable and that supports delivery of resources all schools need to provide every \
child with a world-class education. \
The Government\'92s strategy for Outcome 2 reflects two national goals for schooling \
outlined in the Melbourne Declaration: \
\'95 Australian schooling promotes excellence and equity; and \
\'95 all young Australians become successful learners, confident and creative \
individuals and active and informed citizens. \
Similar policy parameters and accountability measures for the non-government sector \
are provided through the Schools Assistance Act 2008. \
In 2007, the Government delivered a new vision for Australian schooling and has \
invested $65.4 billion in school education funding between 2009 and 2012. Investment \
in school buildings, trade training and technology has delivered state-of-the art \
facilities to equip our students for the 21st  century.  Targeted  investment  by  the \
Government in low socioeconomic status (SES) schools is helping break the cycle of \
disadvantage. \
     DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 2 \
43 \
In recognition of the fact that teacher quality is the single greatest in-school influence \
on student outcomes, the Government is committed to ensuring high quality entrants \
to the teaching profession, that they are supported and trained to be effective and that \
excellence is rewarded. Significant national reforms have already been put in place \
under the Improving Teacher Quality National Partnership, including agreement on \
the National Professional Standards for Teachers. Future years will see the Rewards \
for Great Teachers initiative recognise and reward our best teachers who achieve \
certification at the Highly Accomplished and Lead levels of the Standards. \
The Government is delivering Australia\'92s first national curriculum to ensure that all \
Australian students have access to a world-class curriculum. Developed by ACARA, \
the Australian Curriculum in the first four learning areas of English, mathematics, \
science and history is being implemented in schools around the country, with \
development work on other learning areas progressing this year.  \
The Government is also committed to  providing greater transparency and \
accountability of school performance. The My School website was updated for the third \
time in February 2012 and included, for the first time, a new depiction of student \
improvement or \'91gain\'92 in literacy and numeracy achievement and a new vocational \
education page. The Government\'92s commitment to  My School, which puts more \
information into the hands of parents and the community, is also being matched by \
efforts to give schools greater responsibility and flexibility to make decisions at the \
local level to improve teaching and learning.  \
The Empowering Local Schools initiative aims to drive improved student performance \
and outcomes through increasing the capacity of principals, parents and school \
communities to make decisions about how their local school is run. The Reward for \
School Improvement initiative aims to encourage a nationally consistent and rigorous \
approach to school self-evaluation and improvement planning through \
implementation of a National School Improvement Framework and reward payments \
to schools showing most improvement. \
Schools, teachers and students continue to be supported through the Government\'92s \
$2.5 billion investment in the Smarter Schools National Partnerships to improve \
teacher quality, support disadvantaged school communities and improve literacy and \
numeracy. This includes $1.5 billion over seven years (2008\'9609 to 2014\'9615) to support \
education reform activities in approximately 1700 low SES schools around the country. \
   DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 2 \
44 \
Closing the Gap is a commitment by all Australian governments to improve the lives \
of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples, and in particular provide a better \
future for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander children. There are two Closing the \
Gap targets for schooling: \
\'95 to halve the gap in reading, writing and numeracy achievements for Indigenous \
children by 2018 \
\'95 to halve the gap for Indigenous students in Year 12 attainment or equivalent rates \
by 2020. \
To achieve these targets, a range of reforms, including the development of the \
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education Action Plan 2010\'9614, are being delivered. \
The plan focuses on improvements in the following areas: readiness for school, literacy \
and numeracy and pathways to real post-school options. \
The Government is providing targeted assistance to help ensure that students with \
special learning needs and disabilities are appropriately supported. For example, an \
additional $200 million is being provided through the More Support for Students with \
Disabilities initiative, which will build the capacity of schools and teachers to better \
meet students\'92 individual needs. \
 The Government is investing over $2.1 billion to support the effective integration of \
information and communications technology in Australian schools in line with the \
Government\'92s broader education initiatives, including $31.4 million for more digital \
teaching and learning resources and infrastructure to support implementation of the \
Australian Curriculum. \
The $2.5 billion investment in Trade Trading Centres (TTCs) ensures that Australian \
students are being equipped with the skills needed in the workplaces of today and \
tomorrow by building new state-of-the-art training centres on school sites for use by \
secondary school students who want to pursue a career in the trades. \
Funding provided under the National  Partnership on Youth Attainment and \
Transitions supports the achievement of a national Year 12 or equivalent attainment \
rate of 90 per  cent by 2015. This National Partnership aims  to  increase  the  educational \
engagement and attainment of young people and to improve their transition to post \
school education, training and employment.   DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 2 \
45 \
Table 2.1A  Budgeted expenses and resources for Outcome 2  \
2011-12 2012-13\
Estimated Estimated\
actual expenses\
expenses\
$'000 $'000\
Program 2.2: Non Government Schools National Support\
Administered expenses\
Special appropriations      7,738,681       8,313,066 \
Total for Program 2.2      7,738,681       8,313,066 \
Program 2.3: School Support\
Administered expenses\
Ordinary annual services (Appropriation Bill No. 1)         233,883          205,288 \
Total for Program 2.3         233,883          205,288 \
Program 2.4: Trade Training\
Administered expenses\
Other services (Appropriation Bill No. 2)           55,025            84,249 \
Total for Program 2.4           55,025            84,249 \
Program 2.5: Digital Education\
Administered expenses\
Ordinary annual services (Appropriation Bill No. 1)             9,242              6,000 \
Other services (Appropriation Bill No. 2)           74,000            74,000 \
Total for Program 2.5           83,242            80,000 \
Program 2.6: National Action Plan on Literacy and Numeracy\
Administered expenses\
Ordinary annual services (Appropriation Bill No. 1)             6,800          162,338 \
Total for Program 2.6             6,800          162,338 \
Program 2.7: Education Infrastructure\
Administered expenses\
Other services (Appropriation Bill No. 2)           93,419                      - \
Total for Program 2.7           93,419                      - \
Program 2.9: Smarter Schools - Improving Teacher Quality \
national partnership\
Administered expenses\
Ordinary annual services (Appropriation Bill No. 1)           15,640            13,401 \
Total for Program 2.9           15,640            13,401 \
Program 2.10: More Support for Students with Disabilities\
Administered expenses\
Ordinary annual services (Appropriation Bill No. 1)                554                 554 \
Other services (Appropriation Bill No. 2)           17,066            17,066 \
Total for Program 2.10           17,620            17,620 \
Outcome 2: Improved learning, and literacy, numeracy and \
educational attainment for school students, through funding for \
quality teaching and learning environments, w orkplace learning \
and career advice.DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 2 \
46 \
Table 2.1A  Budgeted expenses and resources for Outcome 2 (continued) \
2011-12 2012-13\
Estimated Estimated\
actual expenses\
expenses\
$'000 $'000\
Outcome 2: Improved learning, and literacy, numeracy and \
educational attainment for school students, through funding for \
quality teaching and learning environments, w orkplace learning \
and career advice.\
Program 2.11:  Youth Support\
Administered expenses\
Ordinary annual services (Appropriation Bill No. 1)         123,071          125,779 \
Special Accounts                240                 240 \
Total for Program 2.11         123,311          126,019 \
Program 2.12: Student Assistance\
Administered expenses\
Special appropriations         276,998          279,842 \
Special Accounts                    5                     5 \
Total for Program 2.12         277,003          279,847 \
Program 2.13: Empowering Local Schools\
Administered expenses\
Ordinary annual services (Appropriation Bill No. 1)             1,250                      - \
Other services (Appropriation Bill No. 2)           18,613                      - \
Total for Program 2.13           19,863                      - \
Program 2.14: Rewards for School Improvement\
Administered expenses\
Ordinary annual services (Appropriation Bill No. 1)             5,785              5,471 \
Total for Program 2.14             5,785              5,471 \
Program 2.15: National Rew ards for Great Teachers\
Administered expenses\
Other services (Appropriation Bill No. 2)             8,717              1,743 \
Total for Program 2.15             8,717              1,743 \
Outcome 2 Totals by appropriation type\
Administered Expenses\
Ordinary annual services (Appropriation Bill No. 1)         396,225          518,831 \
Other services (Appropriation Bill No. 2)         266,840          177,058 \
Special appropriations      8,015,679       8,592,908 \
Special Accounts                245                 245 \
Departmental expenses\
Departmental appropriation \
1\
         161,536          156,248 \
Expenses not requiring appropriation in the Budget year \
2\
           23,393            23,178 \
Total expenses for Outcome 2 8,863,918           9,468,468 \
2011-12 2012-13\
Average Staffing Level (number)               888 974               \
1  \
Departmental Appropria tion comb ines  "Ord inary annual services  (App ropria tion Bills No . 1 & 3)"  and  "Revenue  from \
independent sources  (s31)".\
2 \
Expenses not  requiring appropria tion   in   the Budget year  is made up of Deprec ia tion Expense, Amortisa tion \
Expense, Makegood Expense and Audit Fees  .  DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 2 \
47 \
Program 2.1 Government Schools National Support \
Program objective \
The objective of this program is to contribute to boosting participation and Australia\'92s \
productivity by providing supplementary funding to states and territories to support \
government schools achieve the following five outcomes: \
\'95 all children are engaged in, and benefiting from, schooling \
\'95 young people are meeting basic literacy and numeracy standards, and overall levels \
of literacy and numeracy achievement are improving \
\'95 Australian students excel by international standards \
\'95 schooling promotes social  inclusion and reduces the educational disadvantage of \
children, especially Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander children \
\'95 young people make a successful transition from school to work and further study. \
Government funding for schooling is delivered through the funding framework \
associated with the National Education Agreement (NEA) with states and territories. \
The NEA articulates the commitment of all Australian governments to ensure that all \
Australian school students acquire the knowledge and skills to participate effectively \
in society and employment in a globalised economy. \
Under this framework, the Government provides supplementary funding for \
government schools through the National Schools Specific Purpose Payments to state \
and territory governments. \
The NEA applies the reporting framework agreed to under the Intergovernmental \
Agreement on Federal Financial Relations and sets out ten performance indicators that \
allow reporting on national progress towards achieving the agreed outcomes. National \
progress reports include the: \
\'95 National Report on Schooling in Australia (published by ACARA) \
\'95 Education 2010: Comparing performance across Australia (published by the Council of \
Australian Governments\'92 Reform Council) \
\'95 Annual Report on Government Services (published by the Productivity Commission). \
These reports provide information on all  Australian schools regardless of sector \
(government or non-government). DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 2 \
48 \
Linked to: Treasury\'92s Specific Purpose Payments (SPPs)\'97refer to Budget Paper No. 3 \
(Australia\'92s Federal Relations), Payments to support state education services, which \
includes SPP arrangements with the states  and territories. See also The Treasury\'92s \
Program 1.6: Assistance to the States for Government Schools. \
Program 2.1 deliverables \
2011\'9612 \
Revised \
budget\
2012\'9613 \
Budget\
2013\'9614 2014\'9615 2015\'9616 \
Government Schools Specific Purpose Payment  \
Number of full-time equivalent \
students funded (enrolment \
projections)  2 289 759 2 303 000 2 325 000 2 356 000 2 385 000 \
Program 2.2 Non-Government Schools National Support \
Program objective \
The Government will provide an estimated $37.0 billion for non-government schooling \
for 2009\'962014 under the  Schools Assistance Act 2008 (the Act). Funding appropriated \
under the Act supports the capital and operating costs of non-government primary \
and secondary education schools and systems. Government funding to nongovernment schools supplements funding raised by the schools from other sources. \
Administered items \
The Act, which began on 1 January 2009, provides for: \
\'95 recurrent and capital funding for non-government schools \
\'95 continuation of indexation arrangements for recurrent and other specifically \
targeted funding \
\'95 maximum recurrent grant funding for non-government special schools, special \
assistance schools and schools with significant proportions  of Aboriginal and \
Torres Strait Islander students \
\'95 Indigenous Supplementary Assistance (ISA) for Aboriginal and Torres Strait \
Islander students, generally comprising the non-government recurrent funding \
component for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander school students formerly \
provided under the  Indigenous Education (Targeted Assistance) Act 2000. From \
1 January 2011, non-remote non-government boarding schools with more than 50 \
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander boarding students from remote communities \
are eligible for the higher remote rate of ISA for these students.   DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 2 \
49 \
Targeted programs \
\'95 School Languages Program\'97to help non-government schools improve the learning \
outcomes of students who are learning languages other than English. \
\'95 Country Areas Program\'97to assist geographically isolated children. \
\'95 English as a Second Language \'96 New Arrivals Program\'97to assist newly arrived \
students of non-English speaking backgrounds. \
\'95 Literacy, Numeracy and Special Learning Needs Program\'97to assist the most \
disadvantaged students including students with disability. \
\'95 Short Term Emergency Assistance\'97to support the operation of schools that have \
been affected by unforseen, emergency circumstances. \
The Government\'92s Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander education initiatives \
strategically target issues impacting on education outcomes of Aboriginal and Torres \
Strait Islander students with a particular focus on Closing the Gap targets. Funding is \
provided under the Indigenous Education (Targeted Assistance) Act 2000  and provides \
assistance to organisations and government and non-government schools. \
Initiatives include: \
\'95 Indigenous Youth Leadership Program\'97($57.3 million over four years 2009\'962012) \
provides secondary and tertiary scholarships to support Aboriginal and Torres \
Strait Islander students from mainly very remote and remote areas across Australia \
to complete Year 12 and/or an undergraduate degree while developing leadership \
skills. Current contracts cease December 2012 and DEEWR will soon commence \
discussions with service providers on future arrangements. \
\'95 Indigenous Youth Mobility Program\'97($57.5 million over four years 2009\'962012) \
supports young Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people aged 16-24 years, \
primarily  from  remote  areas,  who  need  to  move  away  from  home  to  gain  the \
qualifications they need to have a greater chance of obtaining sustainable \
employment. This program is delivered in 16 host locations and participants are \
encouraged to pursue Australian Apprenticeships, VET and higher education. \
Current contracts cease December 2012 and DEEWR will soon commence \
discussions with service providers on future arrangements. \
\'95 Sporting Chance Program\'97a $43.4 million Australian Government initiative \
(2009-2012) that uses sport and recreation as a vehicle to increase the level of \
engagement of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students in their schooling to \
improve their education, training and  employment outcomes. The program has \
been implemented with providers working together with schools, education \
authorities, sporting bodies, businesses and community groups.  DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 2 \
50 \
\'95 An additional $4.8 million over three years will benefit up to 700 Aboriginal and \
Torres Strait Islander secondary school students at risk of otherwise not completing \
their schooling. The Clontarf Foundation will establish new academies in regional \
New South Wales to support some 350 Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander male \
students. In addition, new funding will be provided to support school engagement \
strategies for up to 350 Indigenous female students.  \
\'95 Additional 200 teachers in the Northern Territory initiative\'97($107.8 million over \
four years 2009\'962012) to recruit, deploy and retain up to 200 teachers in schools in \
remote communities in the Northern Territory (170 teachers in the government \
sector and 30 teachers in the non-government sector). Both the government and \
non-government sectors are on track to have 200 additional teachers deployed by \
the end of 2012. \
\'95 Continuing Government funding for 200 teaching positions in remote Northern \
Territory schools under the Stronger Futures in the Northern Territory package to \
provide retention of existing teachers recruited under the Closing the Gap in the \
Northern Territory National Partnership. Funding will be tapered over the ten year \
lifetime of this proposal to allow the Northern Territory government to take full \
responsibility for funding teachers after 2021\'9622. \
Table 2.2.2 Administered expenses for Program 2.2 \
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Annual administered expenses:\
Special Appropriations:\
Schools Assistance Act 2008  7,587,740    8,183,019   8,840,529   9,557,949  10,330,319 \
Indigenous Education  (Targeted Assistance) Act \
2000     150,941       130,047      136,689      133,391       126,928 \
Total program expenses   7,738,681    8,313,066   8,977,218   9,691,340  10,457,247   DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 2 \
51 \
Program 2.2 deliverables\
4\
2011\'9612 \
Revised \
budget\
2012\'9613 \
Budget\
2013\'9614 2014\'9615 2015\'9616 \
Recurrent Grants\'97Non-government  \
Number of full-time equivalent \
students funded (enrolment \
projections)  1 214 000 1 234 000 1 258 000 1 285 000 1 314 000 \
Capital Grants\'97Non-government  \
Number of schools assisted with \
capital support 245 235 235 127 \
Ceases \
end \
2014 \
English as a Second Language\'97New Arrivals\'97Non-government  \
Number of new arrivals assisted 838 1000 1050 1100 1150 \
Indigenous Youth Mobility Program \
Number of participants in the \
Indigenous Youth Mobility Program  460 324 Arrangements being finalised \
Indigenous Youth Leadership Program \
Number of participants in the \
Indigenous Youth Leadership \
Program (secondary and tertiary) 871 871 Arrangements being finalised \
Sporting Chance Academies \
Number of students attending \
Sporting Chance Academies 5600 3496 Arrangements being finalised \
                                                          \
4\
Note that arrangements for forward years have not been finalised at this time for the \
Indigenous Youth Mobility Program, Indigenous Youth Leadership Program and Sporting \
Chance Academies. DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 2 \
52 \
Program 2.2 key performance indicators \
2011\'9612 \
Revised \
budget\
2012\'9613 \
Budget\
2013\'9614 2014\'9615 2015\'9616 \
Enrolment trends\'96Non-government  \
Full-time student enrolments in Australian schools\
5\
Primary 633 725 646 000 662 000 679 000 681 000 \
Secondary 590 849 599 000 609 000 619 000 651 000 \
Number of Indigenous students at \
school\
6\
 24 864 26 000 28 000 29 000 31 000 \
Apparent retention rate of full-time \
students from Year 7/8 to Year 12 79% 80% 80% 80% 80% \
Enrolment trends \
Student enrolments in Australian schools\
7\
: \
Primary  2 037 154 2 067 000 2 111 000 2 165 000 2 178 000 \
Secondary  1 482 405 1 486 000 1 490 000 1 494 000 1 550 000 \
Trend in the number of Indigenous \
students at school  167 547 173 000 178 000 184 000 189 000 \
Indigenous trends\
8\
Percentage of young people who \
commence on the Indigenous \
Youth Mobility Program who exit \
the program after achieving a \
vocational education and training \
or higher education qualification or \
to take up full-time employment 60% 60% Arrangements being finalised \
Percentage of eligible Indigenous \
students in receipt of Indigenous \
Youth Leadership Program \
scholarships who complete \
Year 12 90% 90% Arrangements being finalised \
   \
                                                          \
5 Note change to indicator wording, from \'91Trend in full-time student enrolments in Australian \
schools\'92 in 2011\'9612 PBS. \
6\
 Note change to indicator wording, from \'91Trend in the number of Indigenous students at school\'92 \
in 2011\'9612 PBS. \
7 Note change to indicator wording, from \'91Trend in full-time student enrolments in Australian \
schools\'92 in 2011\'9612 PBS. \
8 Arrangements for forward years have not been finalised at this time.   DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 2 \
53 \
Program 2.3 Schools Support \
Program objective \
In its national leadership role, the Government funds initiatives including quality \
teaching and learning environments that aim to improve the quality outcomes for all \
Australian students. \
Administered items \
\'95 The National Trade Cadetships (NTC)\'97an initiative that will deliver a schoolbased program that provides opportunities for students to undertake vocational \
learning and develop work readiness skills in preparation for a skilled occupation \
after leaving school. The NTC will be an industry endorsed course of study as an \
option under the Australian Curriculum. There will be two pathway options: \
Years 9 to 10, which will focus on work readiness and laying the foundation for \
further education and training; and Years 11 to 12, which will focus on a particular \
trade or industry. A work experience component will  form an  integral part of both \
pathways.  \
\'95 Indigenous Ranger Cadetships\'97the Government will provide $4.1 million over \
2011\'9612 to 2013\'9614 to assist Aboriginal  and Torres Strait Islander young people \
complete school and build their capacity for further study, training, jobs and \
careers in land, water and resource  management. The Indigenous Ranger \
Cadetships pilot will engage students in culturally relevant school-based programs \
involving natural resource management, heritage related activities and cultural \
studies. The program is designed to improve school capacity to retain Aboriginal \
and Torres Strait Islander students to Year 12 and to assist students with their \
transition from school to further education, training and work. This will contribute \
to lifting Year 12 attainment levels for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander \
secondary students and contribute to closing the gap in learning outcomes between \
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and other Australians.  \
\'95 Teach Next\'97a new employment-based pathway into teaching has been established \
for up to 395 skilled and experienced professionals who are seeking a career change \
into the teaching profession. The program will play an important role in addressing \
areas of teacher shortages in regional and hard-to-staff schools and in reducing the \
number of teachers currently teaching outside their subject areas.  \
\'95 Helping Children with Autism package: Positive Partnerships\'97this cross-portfolio \
package is delivering $220 million over 2007\'962015 in targeted support for children \
with autism spectrum disorder, their  parents, carers, teachers and other \
professionals. It provides early intervention funding, Medicare rebates, information \
and support for children with autism. The package is being delivered by the \
Departments of Families, Housing, Community Services and Indigenous Affairs \
(FaHCSIA); Health and Ageing (DoHA); and Education, Employment and \
Workplace Relations (DEEWR). DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 2 \
54 \
\'95 The Government, through the department, is committing $40.5 million to Positive \
Partnerships over 2007\'962015.  The department is responsible for delivering two \
initiatives under the package which aim to foster positive partnerships between \
schools and families to improve the educational outcomes of children with an \
autism spectrum disorder. The initiatives provide: \
\'96 professional development for teachers, school leaders and other school staff to \
build their understanding, skills and expertise in working with children with an \
autism spectrum disorder \
\'96 workshops and information sessions for parents and carers to assist them to \
work with their child\'92s teachers, school leaders and other staff. \
\'95 National School Chaplaincy and Student Welfare Program\'97a voluntary program \
that assists school communities to support the wellbeing of their students including \
strengthening values, providing pastoral care and enhancing engagement with the \
broader community. In the 2011-12 Budget, the Government provided an additional \
$222 million to extend the scheme to up to an extra 1000 schools from 2012, with \
priority given to schools service disadvantaged areas or in regional and remote \
locations. \
\'95 Parliament and Civics Education Rebate\'97provides a subsidy to schools for \
students who travel more than 150 kilometres to the national capital for a civics and \
citizenship excursion. \
\'95 National Asian Languages and Studies in Schools Program\'97aims to increase \
opportunities for school students to become proficient at learning the languages \
and understanding the cultures of our Asian neighbours, namely China, Indonesia, \
Japan and Korea. This program ceases December 2012. \
\'95 Quality Outcomes\'97provides funding for  strategic projects that support the \
Government\'92s key objective of improved student learning outcomes in schools and \
its national leadership role in school education. \
\'95 Grants and Awards\'97supports the Australian Students Prize; Recurrent Service \
Fees to support Education Services Australia; the Asia Education Foundation to \
deliver support services for the study of Asia in Australian schools and Grants-inAid which assist in maintaining the operations of key national education research \
organisations and national parents organisations.  \
\'95 Online Diagnostic Tools\'97$46.9 million over five years from 2010\'9611 to deliver \
online assessment and learning tools for teachers and parents and to trial online \
delivery of the National Assessment Program including NAPLAN and sample \
population assessments in science, civics and ICT. \
     DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 2 \
55 \
\'95 As part of the Stronger Futures in the Northern Territory, the Improving School \
Enrolment and Attendance through Welfare Reform Measure (SEAM) will be \
aligned with the Northern Territory government\'92s Every Child, Every Day strategy \
as a way to connect schools and families where children are not enrolled in school, \
or not regularly attending school. SEAM  provides greater access for families to \
Department of Human Services social workers and other support, and attaches \
conditions to income support payments to encourage parents to ensure that their \
children of compulsory school age are enrolled in and attending school regularly. \
SEAM will also expand from the current six communities in the Northern Territory \
to a further 16 locations. Additional SEAM sites were chosen in the Northern \
Territory because attendance is poor in many of these sites and more is needed to \
be done to encourage and support parents to ensure their children attend school. \
Linked to: Treasury\'92s Specific Purpose Payments (SPPs)\'97refer to Budget Paper No. 3 \
(Australia\'92s Federal Relations), Payments to support state education services, which \
includes SPP arrangements with the states  and territories. See also The Treasury\'92s \
Program 1.6: Assistance to the States for Government Schools. \
Table 2.2.3 Administered expenses for Program 2.3\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Annual administered expenses:\
Teach Next      4,300      5,224      4,434      1,950              - \
National Trade Cadetship             -      3,100    12,500    12,500    12,500 \
Online Diagnostic Tools    14,894    10,238      9,734      9,734      9,734 \
Australian Baccalaureate             -              -              -              -      2,706 \
Indigenous Ranger Cadetships         850      1,325         825              -              - \
National Asian Languages in Schools      4,635         461              -              -              - \
Grants and Aw ards      4,035      4,076      4,134      4,194      4,255 \
National School Chaplaincy Program    74,000    74,000    74,000              -              - \
Helping Children w ith Autism      5,354      5,434      5,539      5,642      5,750 \
Quality Outcomes    50,539    58,498    47,970    40,137    37,029 \
Framew ork for Open Learning      2,875      2,984      3,643      3,722      3,805 \
Local Schools Working Together    10,000              -              -              -              - \
Student Resilience and Wellbeing      1,911      1,234      1,117      1,738      6,245 \
Review of School Funding             -      4,793         557              -              - \
One Laptop Per Child    11,700              -              -              -              - \
Maths and Science Participation             -      3,100      4,650      4,700      4,450 \
Indigenous Education    48,790    30,821    30,893    30,967    31,049 \
Total  pr ogr am   e xpe ns e s       233,883   205,288  199,996  115,284  117,523 DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 2 \
56 \
Program 2.3 deliverables \
2011\'9612 \
Revised \
budget\
2012\'9613 \
Budget\
2013\'9614 2014\'9615 2015\'9616 \
Helping Children with Autism Package  \
Number of teachers and other \
school staff attending professional \
development courses 225 450 450 450 450 \
Number of parents and carers \
attending workshops and \
information sessions 725 1800 1800 1800 1800 \
Parliament and Civics Education Rebate \
Number of schools visiting \
Canberra under PACER 2130 2280 1630 1670 1710 \
Indigenous Ranger Cadetships  \
Number of participant schools in \
the Indigenous Ranger Cadetship \
program \
Up to 6 \
pilot \
schools \
Up to an \
additional \
6 pilot \
schools \
Final pilot school \
commencement is January 2013. \
Program ceases June 2014 \
Teach Next  \
Number of Teach Next participants \
commencing 100 195 100 \
Final intake is \
November 2013. \
Program ceases \
December 2015 \
National School Chaplaincy and Student Welfare Program \
Number of schools receiving \
support for chaplaincy or student \
welfare services 3650 3500 3500 \
Program ceases \
December 2014 \
Program 2.4 Trade Training \
Program objective \
Trade training is an important element of  the Government\'92s agendas in relation to \
workforce development and Year 12 attainment in schools. Through the program, the \
Government aims to help: \
\'95 support the achievement of a national Year 12 or equivalent attainment rate of \
90 per cent by 2015 \
\'95 address skills shortages in traditional trades and other eligible occupations by \
\'96 improving student access to trade training facilities that meet industry standards \
\'96 improving the quality of schooling offered to secondary students undertaking \
trade related pathways   DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 2 \
57 \
\'96 assisting young people to make a successful transition from school to work or \
further education or training \
\'96 supporting the Closing the Gap initiative to halve the gap between Aboriginal \
and Torres Strait Islander and other students in Year 12 or equivalent attainment \
rates by 2020. \
The program is one of several Government  programs that seek to contribute to \
improved Year 12 retention rates. Trade Training Centres (TTCs) are already giving \
students access to trade training facilities and pathways, keeping students engaged in \
school and creating linkages between schools, communities, and local industry. \
Since Round 4 opened in late 2011, the rollout of the program is based on the relative \
socioeconomic disadvantage of schools within each education authority sector, rather \
than the former competitive application process. In addition, education authorities and \
their schools now strategically forward plan to develop quality coordinated projects \
with buy-in from schools and local communities. \
Linked to: Treasury\'92s Specific Purpose Payments (SPPs)\'97refer to Budget Paper No. 3 \
(Australia\'92s Federal Relations) Payments to support state education services\'97National \
Partnership payments: TTCs. \
Administered items \
The Trade Training Centres in Schools Program will provide $2.5 billion over the years \
2008\'962018, to enable secondary schools across Australia to seek funding for trade \
training centres, allowing secondary students from years 9 to 12 to access vocational \
education and training to give students a broader range of options, help improve Year \
 12 retention rates and enhance pathways into vocational careers. 376 TTC projects \
benefiting over 1070 schools have been announced so far.  \
Table 2.2.4 Administered expenses for Program 2.4\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Annual administered expenses:\
Trade Training Centres (Non-Government)    55,025    84,249    55,300  112,828  161,564 \
Total  pr ogr am   e xpe ns e s           55,025    84,249    55,300  112,828  161,564 DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 2 \
58 \
Program 2.4 deliverables \
2011\'9612 \
Revised \
budget\
2012\'9613 \
Budget\
2013\'9614 2014\'9615 2015\'9616 \
Trade Training Centres in Schools Program\
9\
Total announced projects \
(cumulative) 376 376 549 722 969 \
New projects announced 89 0 173 173 247 \
New projects announced\'97number \
of schools benefiting\
10\
 176 0 341 341 487 \
Program 2.5 Digital Education Revolution \
Program objective \
The Government\'92s reform agenda is supported and extended by the significant \
investment of over $2.1 billion through the Digital Education Revolution (DER) which \
supports the effective integration of information and communications technology \
(ICT) in Australian schools. The DER complements broader education policy initiatives \
to improve workforce capability and develop coherent national curriculum and \
assessment frameworks. \
For more than a decade, governments and school communities around Australia have \
been working to harness the power of ICT to improve educational opportunities, boost \
outcomes and further enhance the learning experience. Through the DER, the \
Government is working with jurisdictions, government and non-government schools \
sectors to provide computers and software, reliable infrastructure, professional \
development and quality digital resources to prepare young people to live and work in \
a digital world. All state and territory governments agreed to a national, coordinated \
and collaborative partnership approach to develop and implement the DER.  \
The Australian Information and Communications Technology in Education Committee \
provides ongoing advice on the implementation of the DER to the Standing Council on \
School Education and Early Childhood.  \
Linked to: Treasury\'92s Specific Purpose Payments (SPPs)\'97refer to Budget Paper No. 3 \
(Australia\'92s Federal Relations) Payments to support state education services\'97National \
Partnership payments: Digital Education Revolution. \
                                                          \
9\
 Indicators for this program have been revised and updated in order to provide more accurate \
reporting. \
10\
 The number of schools benefiting is subject to minor variations as a result of changes to cluster \
(groups of secondary schools working together to establish trade training centres) \
arrangements or other factors.   DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 2 \
59 \
Administered items \
The Digital Education Revolution is a suite of initiatives, including: \
\'95 the National Secondary Schools Computer Fund, which is helping schools to \
provide new computers and other ICT equipment for students in Years 9 to 12, as \
well as providing the necessary infrastructure to support the installation and \
maintenance of the additional ICT. A 1:1 computer to student ratio has been \
achieved nationally in Years 9 to 12 in Australian schools \
\'95 the $31.4 million Supporting the Australian Curriculum Online program that will \
significantly enhance the pool of national, state and territory digital curriculum \
resources to support all teachers in implementing the Australian Curriculum. It \
includes a focus on filling resource gaps identified for English, mathematics, science \
and history and providing extra resources to help teachers to teach geography, \
languages and the arts. Funding will also provide support for teachers developing \
flexible learning approaches and integrating resources into the classroom \
\'95 the $16.3 million Information and Communications Technology Innovation Fund \
which is supporting four projects that together will assist teachers and school \
leaders to embrace technology and encourage teachers to creatively and effectively \
integrate the use of ICT into the classroom \
\'95 the National Schools Interoperability Program which was established by the \
Australian Education, Early Childhood and Youth Senior Officials Committee to \
provide it with technical advice and support for national initiatives \
\'95 the Australian Curriculum Connect Project which is supporting implementation of \
the Australian Curriculum by enabling the use, sharing and discovery of digital \
resources aligned with the new curriculum. \
Table 2.2.5 Administered expenses for Program 2.5\
   \
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Annual administered expenses:\
Digtal Education Revolution Project Pool      9,242      6,000      4,000              -              - \
Digital Education Revolution (Non-Government)    74,000    74,000 nfp \
1\
 nfp  nfp \
Total  pr ogr am   e xpe ns e s           83,242        80,000            4,000    nfp    nfp \
1 \
Funding not published past the expiry date of the agreement. Future funding is subject to the negotiation of \
a new agreement w ith the states.DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 2 \
60 \
Program 2.6 National Action Plan on Literacy and Numeracy \
Program objective \
This program focuses on the key areas of teaching, leadership and the effective use of \
student performance information to deliver sustained improvement in literacy and \
numeracy outcomes for all students, especially those who are falling behind. It \
contributes to the COAG target to halve the gap for Aboriginal and Torres Strait \
Islander students in reading, writing and numeracy within a decade. The key element \
of this program is the National Partnership Agreement on Literacy and Numeracy. \
The department reports on the following program effectiveness indicators: \
Year 3 Year 5 Year 7 Year 9 \
R N R N R N R N \
Percentage of nonIndigenous students \
at or above the \
national minimum \
standard in reading \
and numeracy 94.9% 96.4% 92.9%  95.5% 95.7% 95.5% 93.5% 94.1% \
Percentage of \
Indigenous students \
at or above the \
reading and \
numeracy national \
Minimum Standards 76.3% 83.6% 66.4% 75.2% 77.1% 76.5% 71.9% 72.0% \
(R) Reading\'a0\'a0(N) Numeracy\
Note: This table presents 2011 data.\
2008\'962011 Comparison of gap in Indigenous reading and numeracy \
2011 \
NAPLAN \
Indigenous \
Reading \
(%) \
Gap \
(percentage \
points)\
Change on \
2008 Gap  \
(percentage \
points) \
Indigenous \
Numeracy \
(%) \
Gap \
(percentage \
points)\
Change on \
2008 Gap  \
(percentage \
points) \
Yr 3 76.3 18.6  \'966.6 83.6 12.8  \'964.6 \
Yr 5 66.4 26.5  \'962.7 75.2 20.3  \'964.5 \
Yr 7 77.1 18.6  \'964.9 76.5 19.0  +1.2 \
Yr 9 71.9 21.6  \'961.9 72.0 22.1  \'960.2 \
Source: 2008 and 2011 NAPLAN\'97proportion of Indigenous students at or above the national \
minimum standard.   DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 2 \
61 \
Administered items \
The $540 million National Partnership Agreement on Literacy and Numeracy (NP) \
commenced in 2009 and comprises: \
\'95 $150 million which has been paid to states and territories to facilitate the \
implementation of literacy and numeracy models or approaches that demonstrated \
evidence for accelerating improvement in students\'92 results.  \
\'95 Up to $350 million to reward states and territories for achievement of targets based \
on predetermined milestones or performance benchmarks. \
\'95 $40 million for strategic initiatives.  \
The NP is achieving significant reform at the national, state and local school level. The \
October 2011 state and territory progress reports provided many local examples of \
activity including widespread adoption  of in-classroom support for teachers by \
specialist coaches; increased teacher skill and confidence in using data to better \
address individual student learning needs; and the use of targeted literacy and \
numeracy interventions for under-performing students. \
A strategic initiative under the NP is the development of Teach, Learn, Share, a \
national evidence base of literacy and numeracy teaching strategies that have been \
proven to work to improve literacy and  numeracy outcomes for students. Effective \
practice will be disseminated to support system-wide improvements. \
Table 2.2.6 Administered expenses for Program 2.6  \
   \
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Annual administered expenses:\
National Action Plan on Literacy and Numeracy       6,800  162,338  162,538  162,538  162,538 \
Total  pr ogr am   e xpe ns e s               6,800  162,338  162,538  162,538  162,538 DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 2 \
62 \
Program 2.7 Education Infrastructure \
Program objective \
As part of the Government\'92s $42 billion  Nation Building\'97Economic Stimulus Plan, \
$16.2 billion was invested over four financial years (2008\'9609 to 2011\'9612) through \
Building the Education Revolution (BER). The BER aimed to provide economic \
stimulus through the rapid construction and refurbishment of school infrastructure \
and to build learning environments to  help children, families and communities \
participate in activities that support achievement, develop learning potential and bring \
communities together. The BER is underpinned by a strong partnership approach \
between the Australian, state and territory governments and non-government \
education authorities. \
Linked to: Treasury\'92s Specific Purpose Payments (SPPs)\'97refer to Budget Paper No. 3 \
(Australia\'92s Federal Relations) Payments to support state education services\'97National \
Partnership payments: Building the Education Revolution. \
Administered items \
\'95 Primary Schools for the 21st Century\'97$14.1 billion for long-term investment to \
build or upgrade large scale infrastructure in all primary schools, special schools \
and Kindergarten to Year 12 (primary component) in government and nongovernment sectors. New buildings funded by this program include libraries, \
multipurpose halls, covered outdoor learning areas, classrooms or major \
refurbishment of existing facilities. \
Table 2.2.7 Administered expenses for Program 2.7 \
Program 2.7 deliverables \
2011\'9612 \
Revised \
budget\
2012\'9613 \
Budget\
2013\'9614 2014\'9615 2015\'9616 \
Government \
Percentage of eligible schools \
receiving funding through Primary \
Schools for the 21st Century 70.07% Ceases June 2012 \
Non-government \
Percentage of eligible schools \
receiving funding through Primary \
Schools for the 21st Century 28.4% Ceases June 2012 \
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Annual administered expenses:\
Building the Education Revolution (Non-Government)\
    93,419              -              -              -              - \
Total  pr ogr am   e xpe ns e s           93,419              -              -              -              -   DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 2 \
63 \
Program 2.8 Smarter Schools\'97Low SES School Communities National \
Partnership \
Program objective \
The National Partnership Agreement on Low Socio-economic Status School \
Communities (NP) is providing $1.5 billion over seven years (2008\'9609 to 2014\'9615) to \
facilitate a range of initiatives within school and out-of-school to address the learning \
needs and wellbeing of students in low socioeconomic status (SES) school \
communities. \
These reforms are focusing on teacher quality, principal leadership, school \
accountability and innovative learning opportunities to better equip students for \
further education, workforce participation and civic responsibilities. They contribute to \
COAG\'92s social inclusion and Indigenous disadvantage agendas. \
The performance indicators set out in the National Education Agreement will measure \
effectiveness. These include the proportion  of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander \
and low SES children enrolled in and attending school and the literacy and numeracy \
achievement of Years 3, 5, 7 and 9 Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander and low SES \
students in national testing. \
Approximately 1734 schools (17 per cent of all schools) will benefit from the NP over \
the seven year period (2008\'9609 to 2014\'9615). These schools enrol around 464 000 \
students (13 per cent of all students), of whom around 65 000 identify as Aboriginal \
and/or Torres Strait Islander. This represents 42 per cent of all Aboriginal and Torres \
Strait Islander students enrolled in schools around the country. \
The NP is creating cultural shifts in teaching and learning and improved attendance \
and engagement. Schools are implementing  innovative approaches to support the \
holistic needs of students and their families. Some of these reforms include the \
extended school model linking students and families to other community services, \
individual student learning plans, student case management and extra support to help \
students to transition from school to work or further study. \
Linked to: Treasury\'92s Specific Purpose Payments (SPPs)\'97refer to Budget Paper No. 3 \
(Australia\'92s Federal Relations), Payments to support state education services, which \
includes SPP arrangements with the states  and territories. See also The Treasury\'92s \
Program 1.6: Assistance to the States for Government Schools. \
Administered items \
The NP provides support for schools and systems to: \
\'95 offer incentives to attract high-performing principals and teachers to low SES \
schools DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 2 \
64 \
\'95 adopt best-practice performance management and staffing arrangements that \
articulate a clear role for principals \
\'95 implement innovative and flexible school operational arrangements to meet the \
local needs of the school community \
\'95 provide innovative and tailored learning opportunities to address the learning \
needs and wellbeing of low SES students \
\'95 strengthen school accountability and provide better reporting of outcomes to \
parents and communities \
\'95 establish external partnerships with  parents, other schools, businesses and \
communities to provide wrap around support for students and help them \
transition successfully to work or further education. \
Program 2.8 deliverables \
2011\'9612 \
Revised \
budget\
2012\'9613 \
Budget\
2013\'9614 2014\'9615 2015\'9616 \
Number of schools assisted 1734 (over 2009 to 2015) \
Ceases \
December \
2015 \
     DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 2 \
65 \
Program 2.9 Smarter Schools\'97Improving Teacher Quality National \
Partnership \
Program objective \
The Smarter Schools\'97Improving Teacher  Quality National Partnership (TQNP) \
supports ambitious, nationally significant and sustainable reforms to attract, train, \
place, develop and retain quality teachers and school leaders in classrooms and \
schools. These reforms provide a platform for raising student performance and \
support other schooling reforms targeting low socioeconomic status school \
communities and literacy and numeracy outcomes. \
Bilateral agreements and implementation  plans agreed to by the Commonwealth, \
states and territories set out strategies in each jurisdiction to implement reforms along \
with payments and state co-investments to be made in support of the TQNP.  \
Summary versions of state and territory implementation plans are published on the \
department\'92s Smarter Schools website www.smarterschools.gov.au. \
The effectiveness of the NP will be measured by the achievement of reform milestones \
which are included in the bilateral agreements and implementation plans. States and \
territories have reported to the Commonwealth biannually on progress against the \
agreed facilitation reform milestones and will provide one report for each reward year \
on progress against their reward reform milestones. \
Under the TQNP, facilitation funding was paid to states and territories to implement \
national reforms such as the National Professional Standards for Teachers, nationally \
consistent teacher registration, a national approach to the accreditation of initial \
teacher education, professional development for school leaders and improving the \
quality and availability of teaching workforce data. \
States and territories are eligible to receive reward funding for the demonstration of \
achievement in reform areas that improve  teacher remuneration structures, increase \
school-based decision making, improve in-school support, reward teachers in \'91hard-tostaff\'92 and disadvantaged schools and increase Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander \
teachers\'92 and schools leaders\'92 engagement with community members. The COAG \
Reform Council will assess achievements against reward reforms and report \
performance information to COAG. \
The Teach for Australia program was established to expand traditional pathways into \
teaching and attract high-calibre graduates (who may otherwise not have considered a \
career in teaching) by introducing an employment-based pathway into the profession. \
Participants have a reduced teaching load and receive a high level of ongoing support \
and training throughout their two-year placement period including a number of \
intensive residential training components. On completion of their two year placement, \
participants are awarded a Postgraduate Diploma of Teaching. DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 2 \
66 \
Linked to: Treasury\'92s Specific Purpose Payments (SPPs)\'97refer to Budget Paper No. 3 \
(Australia\'92s Federal Relations) Payments to support state education services\'97National \
Partnership payments: Improving teacher quality. \
Administered items \
The TQNP will provide $550 million in Commonwealth funding from 2008 to 2013, \
which includes: \
\'95 $94 million in facilitation funding to be paid to states and territories \
\'95 up to $350 million in reward funding to be paid to states and territories \
\'95 $38 million in special projects funding to be paid to states and territories for \
principal professional development \
\'95 $68 million to be retained by the Commonwealth to support joint national activity \
and the Australian Institute for Teaching and School Leadership (AITSL). \
Table 2.2.9 Administered expenses for Program 2.9\
Program 2.9 deliverables \
2011\'9612 \
Revised \
budget\
2012\'9613 \
Budget\
2013\'9614 2014\'9615 2015\'9616 \
Number of Teach for Australia \
Associates commenced 41 50 - \
Program 2.10 More Support for Students with Disabilities \
Program objective \
The More Support for Students with Disabilities initiative is providing $200 million in \
additional funding to government and non-government education authorities to \
support their work with students with disability and learning difficulties.  \
   \
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Annual administered expenses:\
Teacher Quality     15,640    13,401              -              -              - \
Total  pr ogr am   e xpe ns e s           15,640    13,401              -              -              -   DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 2 \
67 \
The initiative allows education authorities to use the funding to increase support for \
students with disability by building the capacity of schools and teachers to better meet \
students\'92 individual needs. Education authorities have the flexibility to select a range \
of activities that will best meet the needs of students, teachers and schools in their \
jurisdiction. Education authority implementation plans for the initiative are available \
through the department\'92s website. Services will be delivered in the 2012 and 2013 \
school years. \
The major focus of this short-term initiative is to build the capacity of Australian \
schools and teachers to better support students with disability, contributing to \
improved student learning experiences,  educational outcomes and transitions to \
further education or work.  \
Linked to: Treasury\'92s Specific Purpose Payments (SPPs)\'97refer to Budget Paper No. 3 \
(Australia\'92s Federal Relations), Payments to support state education services, which \
includes SPP arrangements with the states  and territories. See also The Treasury\'92s \
Program 1.6: Assistance to the States for Government Schools. \
Administered items \
The National Partnership for More Support  for Students with Disabilities provides \
state and territory governments and non-government education authorities flexibility \
to select activities based on the needs of their jurisdiction. Examples of the supports \
that are being implemented include: \
\'95 the delivery of coordinated expert services within a school \
\'95 the development of support centres which  serve as centres of expertise in the \
educational needs of students with disability \
\'95 the provision of specialised assistive technologies (eg computer software, low \
vision aids, communication tools for use in classrooms) \
\'95 the engagement of paraprofessionals to strengthen support students with disability \
\'95 schools coordinating with health and allied health professionals to assist students \
with disability \
\'95 the provision of additional support for students with disability to transition \
effectively between stages of schooling and/or from school into further education \
\'95 the provision of professional development and support for teachers to adjust the \
curriculum and the way they teach to better support students with disability. \
A comprehensive evaluation will be undertaken to identify successful strategies in the \
education of students with disability. This information will then be made publicly \
available to teachers, schools, students, parents and communities.  DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 2 \
68 \
Table 2.2.10 Administered expenses for Program 2.10  \
Program 2.10 deliverables \
2011\'9612 \
Revised \
budget\
2012\'9613 \
Budget\
2013\'9614 2014\'9615 2015\'9616 \
Key performance indicators for this initiative have been developed at the jurisdictional level and \
vary according to activities being undertaken. Indicators are detailed in jurisdiction \
implementation plans that are approved by the Australian Government. \
Program 2.11 Youth Support \
Program objective \
The Government is committed to supporting all young people to make a successful \
transition from school to further education, training or work. Attaining a Year 12 \
qualification, or its vocational equivalent, is a key factor influencing young people\'92s \
future economic opportunities and engagement in lifelong learning. \
Evidence shows that current Year 12 or equivalent attainment rates have not increased \
significantly over the past decade and that improvement above the long-term trend \
will be required to meet the COAG target of 90 per cent Year 12 or equivalent \
attainment by 2015. \
A small proportion of young people are not engaged in productive activities after \
leaving school and this time is characterised by protracted periods of reliance on \
income support. Another cohort do not make smooth transitions from school. For this \
group, transition support can reduce \'91churn\'92 through education or training courses, \
and lead to more sustainable employment. Government support has a particular focus \
on young people who are not fully engaged with education or work.  \
The National Partnership on Youth Attainment and Transitions aims to increase the \
educational engagement and attainment of young people to improve transitions. It \
clarifies roles and responsibilities between the Government and the states and \
territories, provides a safety net for young people who have disengaged from \
education, and drives longer-term reform to ensure that young people stay engaged in \
education and training and increase their skills and qualifications. \
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Annual administered expenses:\
Students w ith Disabilities (COPE)         554         554         276              -              - \
Students w ith Disabilities (Non-Government)    17,066    17,066      8,502              -              - \
Total  pr ogr am   e xpe ns e s           17,620        17,620            8,778                            -                            -   DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 2 \
69 \
Linked to: Treasury\'92s Specific Purpose Payments (SPPs)\'97refer to Budget Paper No. 3 \
(Australia\'92s Federal Relations) Payments to support state education services\'97National \
Partnership payments: Youth attainment and transitions. \
Administered items \
\'95 National Partnership on Youth Attainment and Transitions (NP)\'97aims to improve \
young Australians\'92 educational participation and attainment, their engagement, \
and their transition to post-school education, training and employment. Under the \
NP, the Government is providing continued funding of $624 million over four \
calendar years from 2010\'962013 for improved youth career and transition \
arrangements. The NP also provides $100 million in reward funding for states and \
territories for progress towards the COAG  target  of  90 per cent  Year  12  or \
equivalent attainment for 20 to 24-year-olds by 2015. \
Under this NP the Government has worked together with state and territory \
governments to remove duplication and overlap in the support and transitions \
services for young people. This is evident in the two major programs by the \
Government which were tailored in each jurisdiction to complement state or \
territory programs and policies. \
\'96 Youth Connections\'97($288.2 million over four years) to provide an improved \
safety net for youth at risk (delivered as a Commonwealth Own-Purpose \
Expense (COPE)). It offers flexible, individualised support to young people who \
have disengaged, or are at risk of disengaging from school. Support is tailored to \
each young person\'92s personal situation and circumstances and assists them to \
overcome obstacles to engagement, including low SES or other disadvantage. \
\'96 School Business Community Partnership Brokers (Partnership Brokers)\'97\
$139.3 million11\
 over four years to build partnerships to foster a strategic, wholeof-community approach that supports young people\'92s learning and \
development. Partnership Brokers support strengthened partnerships between \
schools, business and communities to extend learning beyond the classroom, \
encourage student engagement and improve educational outcomes (delivered as \
a COPE). In Victoria, this function is delivered through enhancement to the \
existing Local Learning and Employment Network (LLEN). \
                                                          \
11\
 This figure is commonly reported as $183.3 million for Partnership Brokers under the NP on Youth \
Attainment and Transitions. Because of different arrangements for the Partnership Broker program in \
Victoria, $44 million in funds for Victoria is disbursed through their Maximising Engagement, Attainment \
and Successful Transitions (MEAST) funds, to be used to build partnerships through their LLEN network. \
MEAST funds are commonly reported as $106 million, which reflects the amount provided to the states and \
territories for reform. DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 2 \
70 \
These programs are tailored to the needs of local communities within each region \
and are designed to be flexible and responsive to the needs of young people. Youth \
Connections and Partnership Brokers work together to increase the community\'92s \
capacity to assist young people to realise their full potential and keep their lives on \
track. \
Other initiatives under the NP include \
\'96 Maximising Engagement, Attainment and Successful Transitions\'97$150 million \
over four years from 2010\'962013 to the  states and territories to support the \
development and implementation of state based initiatives that will improve \
education and transition outcomes for young people. Funding is available for \
the reform areas of multiple learning pathways; career development and \
mentoring. \
\'96 National Career Development\'97$30 million over four years from 2010\'962013 \
administered by the Commonwealth for the development of resources at a \
national level for the benefit of all jurisdictions for example \
www.myfuture.edu.au. \
\'95 The Office for Youth\'97aims to ensure that young people reach their full potential; \
make effective transitions to adulthood as they continue to learn; start work and \
make decisions that support a healthy lifestyle. To this end, the office delivers a \
range of initiatives to help young Australians reach their full potential and engage \
with their families and the community that complement the goals of the NP. \
The Office for Youth manages the Australian Youth Forum which is a mechanism \
for young people to engage directly with the Government and have the \
opportunity to shape and influence policies on issues which matter to them. \
The Office for Youth also has a research focus through the Longitudinal Surveys of \
Australian Youth (LSAY) program, and works across government at all levels, and \
with the youth sector through the Australian Youth Affairs Coalition to identify \
gaps, emerging issues and areas of focus for the future. \
\'95 Youth Engagement\'97The Office for Youth  administers the following government \
initiatives and programs which support young Australians to engage with \
government on decisions that impact on them, to transition to independent living, \
to celebrate their contribution to the community, to provide specific assistance to \
vulnerable young people and also by  providing comprehensive and up-to-date \
information about key issues and practices in the youth field. \
\'96 Australian Youth Forum\'97a formal  communication channel between the \
Government, young people (15 to 24 years) and the youth sector. It provides \
young people the opportunity to have their voices heard and encourages all \
young people to get involved in public  discussions so that their ideas can be \
considered in the development of Australian public policy, programs or \
projects.   DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 2 \
71 \
\'96 National Youth Week\'97the single largest celebration of and for young people, \
has been held annually as a joint Australian, state and territory and local \
Government initiative since 2000. It encourages young people to be engaged and \
active participants in their communities. The Government contributes in three \
key areas: support for local events (through funding agreements with the states \
and territories); implementation of a national communications strategy; and \
secretariat support for the National Planning Group. \
\'96 Australian Clearinghouse for Youth Studies\'97a central access point for \
information on youth issues in Australia. The Australian  Clearinghouse for \
Youth Studies provides  support to the youth sector and young people \
themselves, as well as policymakers, researchers and practitioners in other \
sectors working with youth by collecting and disseminating youth related \
research and best practice and building capacity within the youth sector.  \
\'96 Transition to Independent Living Allowance\'97a program that provides a one-off \
allowance for young people aged 15 to 25 years who are about to, or have exited, \
formal  state-based  care  and/or  informal  care  such  as  juvenile  justice,  out-ofhome care and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander kinship care arrangements \
and who are at risk of not making a successful transition to independent living. \
This allowance encourages a preventative and early intervention approach, \
which can help these young people avoid further welfare dependency and \
homelessness. \
\'96 Youth Development and Support Program\'97a program that provides small \
grants to community-based organisations  to conduct small-scale projects that \
engage young people in activities that develop their personal skills to support \
their transition to independence and adulthood, as well as providing an avenue \
for greater community involvement. \
Table 2.2.11 Administered expenses for Program 2.11\
   \
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Annual administered expenses:\
Youth Attainment and Transitions National \
Partnership  113,402  114,360    57,446              -              - \
Youth Engagement      9,669    11,419      8,942      7,490      7,516 \
Special Account Expenses: \
National Youth Affairs Research Component         240         240         240         240         240 \
Total  pr ogr am   e xpe ns e s       123,311  126,019    66,628      7,730      7,756 DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 2 \
72 \
Program 2.11 deliverables \
National Partnership on Youth Attainment and Transitions  \
Progress towards 2015 COAG \
target of 90 per cent Year 12 or \
equivalent attainment 86.73% \
There are no targets \
set for between \
2012\'962014 90% \
Ceases \
December \
2013 \
Number of young people for \
whom outcomes are achieved \
through support provided by the \
Youth Connections program 15 000 15 000 15 000 \
Ceases December \
2013 \
Number of regions that School \
Business Community \
Partnership Brokers support \
(Delivered through 31 Local \
Learning and Employment \
Networks in Victoria) 107 107 107 \
Ceases December \
2013 \
Transition to Independent Living Allowance \
Number of young people \
accessing the Transition to \
Independent Living Allowance 2260 2260 2260 2260 2260 \
Program 2.12 Student Assistance \
Program objective \
The Government is committed to raising the Year 12 or equivalent attainment rate to \
90 per cent by 2015 and to reduce the gap in Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander \
peoples\'92 education under its policy of giving all Australians an opportunity to gain a \
first class education. \
Measures such as student support encourage and assist young people to remain in \
education and training. Government support is provided through programs such as \
ABSTUDY and funding through the Assistance for Isolated Children scheme. \
Administered items \
\'95 ABSTUDY\'97addresses the particular educational disadvantages faced by \
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples by providing support to students and \
Australian Apprentices to access and participate in secondary and tertiary \
education. \
\'95 From 1 July 2012, as part of the Government\'92s student income reform package, the \
student personal income test limits will increase from $236 to $400 per fortnight. \
Also from 1 July 2012, the student income bank will increase from $6000 to $10000 \
per annum. \
     DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 2 \
73 \
\'95 As part of the Building Australia\'92s Future Workforce package announced in the \
2011-12 Budget, Youth Allowance will be  extended to include 21 year old job \
seekers from 1 July 2012. In line with the longstanding principle that ABSTUDY \
payments reflect other general income support payments, the rate of payment for \
ABSTUDY 21 year olds will also be aligned with the rate for Youth Allowance from \
1 July 2012.  \
\'95 Student Start-up Scholarship\'97payable to eligible university students receiving \
ABSTUDY Living Allowance. The rate for 2012 is $2050, paid in two half yearly \
instalments. The Student Start-up Scholarship is indexed annually and is also \
available to eligible students assisted under Youth Allowance and veterans\'92 \
schemes. Students who are in receipt of a Commonwealth Education Costs \
Scholarship (CECS) are not eligible to also receive the Student Start-up Scholarship. \
\'95 Relocation Scholarship\'97payable to eligible university students receiving \
ABSTUDY Living Allowance who, as dependent recipients, have to move away \
from home for study or as independent  students who are disadvantaged by their \
personal circumstances and are unable to live in the family home. In 2012, the \
scholarship is $4000 for eligible students in their first year of living away from \
home to attend university. For students from major cities, the scholarship is $1000 \
for each subsequent year they need to live away from home to study. Students from \
regional areas may receive $2000 in each of the second and third years of their \
study and $1000 in the following years they live away from home to study. \
Students who are in receipt of a Commonwealth Accommodation Scholarship \
(CAS) or Indigenous CAS are not eligible to also receive the Relocation Scholarship. \
\'95 Assistance for Isolated Children scheme\'97provides support to ensure that all \
Australian children have access to a school education. If a student does not have \
reasonable daily access to an appropriate government school, parents may attract \
financial support to send the student to a school of their choice. DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 2 \
74 \
Table 2.2.12 Administered expenses Program 2.12\
Program 2.12 deliverables \
2011\'9612 \
Revised \
budget\
2012\'9613 \
Budget\
2013\'9614 2014\'9615 2015\'9616 \
Assistance for Isolated Children Scheme \
Students in receipt of Assistance \
for Isolated Children funding 12 156 12 176 14 346 14 346 14 346 \
Program 2.12 key performance indicators \
ABSTUDY\'97Secondary  \
Average number of school \
students receiving ABSTUDY \
during the year 22 000 22 600 23 200 23 600 23 600 \
ABSTUDY\'97Tertiary \
Average number of higher \
education students receiving \
ABSTUDY during the year 3900 4200 4300 4400 4400 \
Average number of Australian \
Apprentices and students \
attending a TAFE college or \
private training institution in \
receipt of ABSTUDY during the \
year 5500 5500 5700 5800 5800 \
Average number of tertiary and \
VET students in receipt of \
ABSTUDY during the year (total) 9400 9700 10 000 10 200 10 200 \
   \
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Special Appropriations:\
Student Assistance Ac t 1973\
ABSTUDY - Secondary  141,235  133,511  129,205  129,956  129,974 \
ABSTUDY - Tertiary    78,162    83,261    86,401    86,732    87,706 \
Assistance for Isolated Children    57,601    63,070    69,661    71,686    73,769 \
Special Account Expenses: \
Superannuation payments for ATAS             5             5             5             5             5 \
Total  pr ogr am   e xpe ns e s       277,003   279,847  285,272  288,379  291,454   DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 2 \
75 \
Program 2.13 Empowering Local Schools \
Program objective \
The objective of the Empowering Local Schools initiative is to empower participating \
schools to make decisions at a local level, supporting them to better respond to the \
needs of students and the school community and provide services designed to assist \
their students to achieve their best educational outcomes.  \
Key elements of the initiative are: \
\'95 Phase One\'97will focus on supporting increased local decision-making in the areas \
of governance, funding and infrastructure, and workforce in up to 1000 \
government and non-government schools over 2012 and 2013 (the Western \
Australian government is not participating in the Empowering Local Schools \
initiative). Funding for Phase One comprises \
\'96 start-up grants of $43.51 million (between $40 000 and $50 000 per participating \
school) to assist them to manage their increased decision-making responsibilities \
effectively \
\'96 up-front, one-off transition funding to the government sector of $6.36 million \
($909 000 per education authority) and the Catholic sector of $4.07 million \
($509 000 per education authority) to support changes to centralised \
administrative arrangements required to assist participating schools to assume \
greater levels of local decision-making \
\'96 $3.22 million in funding to support the provision of training and professional \
development for principals and school communities.  \
\'95 Phase  Two\'97will  be  informed  by  an  independent evaluation of Phase One and is \
expected to commence from 2015. \
Linked to: Treasury\'92s Specific Purpose Payments (SPPs)\'97refer to Budget Paper No. 3 \
(Australia\'92s Federal Relations) Payments to support state education services\'97National \
Partnership payments: Empowering Local Schools. \
Administered items \
\uc0\u61607  A further amount of $1.25 million will be provided to the Australian Institute for \
Teaching and School Leadership to support research, communities of practice and \
professional development for principals and school leaders participating in Phase \
One of the initiative. \
\uc0\u61607  The total funding commitment comprises $475.5 million over seven years from \
2010\'962017. DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 2 \
76 \
Table 2.2.13 Administered expenses for Program 2.13\
Program 2.14 Rewards for School Improvement \
Program objective \
The Rewards for School Improvement program aims to encourage a nationally \
consistent and rigorous approach to school self-evaluation and improvement planning \
through implementation of a National School Improvement Framework and reward \
payments to schools showing the most improvement. \
Key elements of the initiative are: \
\'95 development of a National School Improvement Framework (NSIF), to be \
implemented nationally from 2014 \
\'95 annual assessments from 2015 of school improvement to identify most improved \
schools \
\'95 reward payments to schools showing greatest improvement from the previous year \
commencing in 2015. \
Linked to: Treasury\'92s Specific Purpose Payments (SPPs)\'97refer to Budget Paper No. 3 \
(Australia\'92s Federal Relations) Payments to support state education services\'97National \
Partnership payments: Reward for School Improvement. \
Administered items \
\'95 Funding of $40.9 million from 2011\'962019 for the development of the NSIF and \
operation of the program.  \
\'95 A total budget of $19 million over 2012\'962014, to be paid to states and territories to \
facilitate implementation of the NSIF. \
\'95 $275.6 million in reward funding from 2014\'9615, to be made to schools \
demonstrating the greatest improvement. \
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Annual administered expenses:\
Empow ering Local Schools      1,250              -              -              -              - \
Empow ering Local Schools (Non-Government)    18,613              -              -              -  115,453 \
Total  pr ogr am   e xpe ns e s           19,863                            -                            -                            -   115,453   DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 2 \
77 \
Table 2.2.14 Administered expenses for Program 2.14\
Program 2.15 National Rewards for Great Teachers \
Program objective \
The Rewards for Great Teachers initiative will provide $1.1 billion over eight years \
from 2011\'962019 to recognise and reward quality teachers in Australia who achieve \
certification at the highest levels of the National Professional Standards for Teachers. \
Over the next four years the Government will invest $225 million in the Rewards for \
Great Teachers initiative. Of this, $60 million will be available to implement a new \
Australian Teacher Performance and Development Framework and a nationally \
consistent certification process for Highly Accomplished and Lead Teachers with \
$165 million available to reward teachers. \
Through the Rewards for Great Teachers initiative, teachers who become certified at \
the highest levels of the National Professional Standards for Teachers will be rewarded \
with a one-off payment of $7500 for Highly Accomplished teachers and $10 000 for \
teachers who achieve the Lead teacher level.  \
Linked to: Treasury\'92s Specific Purpose Payments (SPPs)\'97refer to Budget Paper No. 3 \
(Australia\'92s Federal Relations) Payments to support state education services\'97National \
Partnership payments: National Rewards for Great Teachers. \
Table 2.2.15 Administered expenses for Program 2.15\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Annual administered expenses:\
Rew ards for School Improvement      5,785      5,471      5,610      5,610      5,610 \
Rew ards for School Improvement (NonGovernment)             -              -              -    10,900    21,700 \
Total  pr ogr am   e xpe ns e s               5,785      5,471      5,610    16,510    27,310 \
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Annual administered expenses:\
National Rew ards for Great Teachers      8,717      1,743    13,965    43,616    87,232 \
Total  pr ogr am   e xpe ns e s               8,717      1,743    13,965    43,616    87,232 DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 3 \
78 \
Outcome 3: Enhanced employability and acquisition of labour market skills and \
knowledge and participation in society through direct financial support and \
funding of employment and training services \
Outcome 3 strategy \
Increasing productivity and workforce participation is essential for maintaining \
Australia\'92s economic growth and lifting  our long-term prosperity. The long-term \
challenges of an ageing population combined with the need for a more highly skilled \
workforce, and ongoing structural changes across many industries mean it is \
increasingly important that people of working age are participating in the labour \
market and that their skills are regularly updated and where necessary, upgraded. \
This will ensure skills shortages are not  a capacity constraint, and workers take \
advantage of opportunities in new industries and markets.  \
While the unemployment rate in Australia remains low by international standards \
there remain areas of ongoing relative disadvantage in Australia. The Government\'92s \
employment services and related programs provide disadvantaged Australians\'97those \
who have difficulty finding and maintaining work\'97with opportunities and support to \
develop their skills and capabilities so they can be financially self-sufficient and have \
positive levels of wellbeing throughout their life. The Outcome leads the department\'92s \
contribution to population, participation and productivity policy development \
through strategies that build workforce capability, flexibility and participation \
incentives through: \
\'95 place-based and sectoral solutions to labour supply \
\'95 policies and programs that boost social,  economic and workforce participation, \
particularly for disadvantaged job seekers \
\'95 policies that promote the wellbeing of working age Australians \
\'95 policies and programs that increase Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people\'92s \
employment outcomes and participation, contributing to the Government\'92s \
commitment to Closing the Gap in employment outcomes between Aboriginal and \
Torres Strait Islander peoples and other Australians within the decade. \
Underpinning these strategies is a rich  evidence base supported by collaborative \
relationships with key international research organisations including the OECD, as \
well as the department\'92s own research and statistics.  DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 3 \
79 \
Contributions to Outcome 3 \
Employment Services Arrangements in Non-Remote Areas \
Job Services Australia \
The Employment Services Deeds for Job Services Australia (JSA), which expire on \
30 June 2012, provided extension clauses. The procurement  methodology for JSA \
2012-2015 chosen by Government was a  mix of contract extensions, business \
reallocation for underperforming contracts, and an open tender process. The outcomes \
of the Request for Tender for JSA which was released in November 2011 were \
published in March 2012. New deeds will commence on 1 July 2012. \
Disability Employment Services\'96Employment Support Service \
On 20 February 2012, the Disability Employment Services\'96Employment Support \
Service (DES-ESS) Exposure Draft of proposed purchasing arrangements was released. \
Consultation sessions were held in capital cities and selected regional centres to \
support the release of the Exposure Draft and allow the community to provide \
comments and feedback. This feedback was  considered in finalising the Request for \
Tender (RFT), which will be released in May 2012. The outcomes of the RFT are due for \
release in late October 2012. The new deeds will commence on 4 March 2013. \
Employment Services Arrangements in Remote Australia\'97the new Remote Jobs \
and Communities Program \
The Remote Jobs and Communities Program (RJCP) is the culmination of a \
comprehensive review of remote participation and employment servicing \
arrangements.\
During 2012\'9613 the Government will continue to consult with remote communities on \
the implementation of the new integrated RJCP. The RJCP is funded at $1.5 billion over \
five years and will commence on 1 July 2013.  It  replaces  JSA,  Disability  Employment \
Services (DES), Indigenous Employment Program (IEP) and the Community \
Development Employment Projects program in remote Australia. The RJCP is \
designed to ensure remote job seekers, especially Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander \
job seekers, participate in meaningful community activities and get the skills they need \
to find and keep a job.  \
Indigenous Economic Development Strategy  \
In October 2011 the Indigenous Economic Development Strategy was released \
following extensive consultation with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples \
across Australia. The strategy focuses on increasing the personal and economic \
wellbeing of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples through greater \
participation in the economy.  \
The strategy sets out a long-term agenda for Indigenous economic participation that \
will guide government decision-making and program development through to 2018. It \
identifies five priority areas, each with specific actions, which are key to improving the DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 3 \
80 \
prosperity of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples: strengthening foundations; \
education; skills development and jobs; business and entrepreneurship; and financial \
security and independence.  \
Mature age strategy \
The department is working with employers to encourage the employment of matureage people, including through the Investing in Experience Employment Charter and \
Tool Kit. A number of large employers (Corporate Champions) have been appointed to \
demonstrate leadership in recruiting and retaining mature-age staff. These employers \
are receiving one-on-one assistance to establish and achieve their recruitment and \
retention goals, including access to the new Jobs Bonus of $1000 (from 1 July 2012) for \
employers who recruit and retain a mature age job seeker for 13 weeks. From \
1 January 2013, additional assistance will also be provided for peer-based support, \
intensive job preparation and training (including IT training) to eligible mature-age job \
seekers in targeted areas and industries, to help them find and keep a job. \
The Charter, Tool Kit and Corporate Champions form part of the work of the \
Consultative Forum on Mature Age Participation. The forum has presented an interim \
report to Government identifying the barriers to employment faced by mature-age \
people and will present a final report by 30 June 2012, following Australia\'92s first \
national survey on those  barriers. Consultation with members and other key \
stakeholders will continue, with a view to increasing the recruitment and retention of \
mature-age people. \
Job seeker compliance \
The job seeker compliance measures announced in the 2011\'9612 Budget under Building \
Australia\'92s Future Workforce (BAFW), to be introduced from 1 July 2012, will \
strengthen job seeker participation arrangements by improving the interaction \
between employment services providers and Centrelink. There will be better \
communication of job seekers\'92 circumstances which will contribute to individualised \
servicing strategies and improved job  seeker engagement. Wherever possible, \
Comprehensive Compliance Assessments for vulnerable job seekers will be conducted \
face-to-face and providers will be given the opportunity to provide input into \
Comprehensive Compliance Assessments in certain circumstances. Job seekers who \
are having difficulty in meeting their participation requirements will also benefit from \
targeted interviews jointly held with their employment services provider and \
Department of Human Services staff. Simplification of the IT user interface will assist \
provider staff to correctly report on job seeker participation and to understand the \
reasons for Centrelink compliance decisions. Alignment of penalty rate calculations is \
also being introduced to simplify the framework and streamline compliance \
arrangements for job seekers and providers. DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 3 \
81 \
Job seekers and skill development \
In order to address the need for adequately skilled job seekers to fill current vacancies, \
and to enable employers to recruit the workers they will require in the future, it is \
important to increase awareness and access to the employment and training programs \
and services in place for job seekers to obtain the necessary skills to meet the needs of \
employers. The department is working with state and territory agencies to develop \
strategies to strengthen the interaction and information sharing between the \
employment services and training sectors, including at the local level. \
Building Australia\'92s Future Workforce  \
Building Australia\'92s Future Workforce (BAFW) was announced in the 2011\'9612 Budget \
as a whole-of-government response to  address the challenges of Australia\'92s \
transitioning labour market by building an educated and skilled workforce and \
maximising opportunities for all to experience the benefits of work. The package \
contains 39 measures across the department and the Departments of Human Services; \
Families, Housing, Community Services and Indigenous Affairs; and Industry, \
Innovation, Science, Research and Tertiary Education.  Around half of the BAFW \
measures are now in place, with 15 commencing on 1 July 2012 and one remaining \
measure starting on 1 January 2013. \
BAFW measures implemented by the department in 2011\'9612 include: \
\'95 the Helping Young Parents program (Teenage Parents Trial) to support around \
4000 young parents over 3.5 years across ten identified locations of disadvantage, at \
a cost of $47 million, to obtain Year 12 or equivalent qualifications and support the \
development of their children. \
\'95 the extension of the Priority Employment Area strategy, including Local \
Employment Coordinators and Jobs and Skills Expos, through to June 2013 to \
support areas identified as vulnerable against around 70 indicators of labour \
market disadvantage. Local Employment Coordinators in 20 designated priority \
employment areas identify opportunities and connect stakeholders across \
governments to deliver local solutions to local labour market problems and have \
access to a Flexible Funding Pool to support their work. Local Employment \
Coordinators work with their Advisory Committee in their respective regions to \
implement a regional employment plan, taking account of the broader Regional \
Development Australia Plans and Regional Education, Skills and Jobs Plans where \
these align. \
\'95 initiatives to increase the workforce participation of disadvantaged people \
including 20 Job Services Australia demonstration pilots to test enhancements to \
current service delivery arrangements and Wage Connect, a new wage subsidy to \
encourage employers to take on very long-term unemployed people. DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 3 \
82 \
\'95 the Compulsory Participation Requirements for Jobless Families\'97Targeted \
Locations measure is being implemented on 1 July 2012 at a cost of $71.1 million \
over three financial years and will support around 22 000 parents per year across \
ten identified locations of disadvantage, with a focus on child health, development \
and wellbeing and on helping the parents to take steps to participate in work. \
In consultation with other participating departments, the department is undertaking \
an overarching evaluation of the BAFW package. The interim report is due in \
December 2013 and the final report in October 2014. \
Migration and seasonal workers \
The department provides labour market and related advice on temporary and \
permanent migration programs to ensure the programs contribute to the supply of \
skilled labour necessary to improve productivity in the labour market and the \
economy. The department is the lead agency for the Seasonal Worker Program which \
commences on 1 July 2012 and will supersede the Pacific Seasonal Worker Pilot \
Scheme. Under the Seasonal Worker Program, workers from the Pacific and East \
Timor will be able to work in the horticulture industry for between 14 weeks and \
seven months. The program also includes a small scale trial for the tourism industry, \
cotton and cane industries and the aquaculture industry. DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 3 \
83 \
Table 2.3A  Budgeted expenses and resources for Outcome 3\
   \
2011-12 2012-13\
Estimated Estimated\
actual expenses\
expenses\
$'000 $'000\
Program 3.1: Employment Services\
Administered expenses\
Ordinary annual services (Appropriation Bill No. 1) 1,     1,562,519 563,229     \
Total for Program 3.1 1,563,229     1,562,519     \
Program 3.2: Indigenous Employment\
Administered expenses\
Ordinary annual services (Appropriation Bill No. 1)        172,576 157,713        \
Total for Program 3.2 157,713        172,576        \
Program 3.3: Disability Employment Services\
Administered expenses\
Ordinary annual services (Appropriation Bill No. 1)        855,356 861,708        \
Total for Program 3.3 861,708        855,356        \
Program 3.4: Remote Jobs and Communities Program\
Administered expenses\
Ordinary annual services (Appropriation Bill No. 1) -                    168               \
Total for Program 3.4 -                    168               \
Program 3.5: Working Age Payments\
Administered expenses\
Ordinary annual services (Appropriation Bill No. 1) 198               198               \
Special appropriations 14,050,967   14,761,161   \
Total for Program 3.5 14,051,165   14,761,359   \
Outcome 3 Totals by appropriation type\
Administered Expenses\
Ordinary annual services (Appropriation Bill No. 1) 2,     2,590,817 582,848     \
Special appropriations 14,050,967   14,761,161   \
Departmental expenses\
Departmental appropriation \
1\
        332,507 322,387        \
Expenses not requiring appropriation in the Budget year \
2\
          48,757 49,179          \
Total expenses for Outcome 3 17,005,381   17,733,242   \
2011-12 2012-13\
Average Staffing Level (number)            1,924 2,016            \
1  \
Departmental Appropria tion comb ines  "Ord inary annual se rvices  (Appropria tion Bill No. 1)" and  "Revenue  from \
independent sources  (s31)"  .\
2 \
Expenses not  requiring appropria tion  in   the Budget year  is made up of Deprec ia tion Expense, Amortisa tion \
Expense, Makegood Expense, Audit Fees.\
Outcome 3: Enhanced employability and acquisition of labour \
market skills and know ledge and participation in society \
through direct financial support and funding of employment \
training services.DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 3 \
84 \
Program 3.1 Employment Services \
Program objective \
Job Services Australia (JSA) is a streamlined and personalised service for job seekers \
enabling providers to more effectively respond to changing economic conditions. JSA \
provides job seekers with tailored services to equip them with the skills and attributes \
to meet employers\'92 needs. \
The 2012\'9613 Budget will invest more than $6 billion over the next four years in JSA. A \
number of additional strategies will build on the current JSA service model and \
procurement arrangements to continue to lift performance when current contracts \
cease on 30 June 2012. \
Under Building Australia\'92s Future Workforce (BAFW) and other government \
initiatives a strong focus on measures to support young people, very long-term \
unemployed people and highly disadvantaged job seekers include: \
\'95 DHS\'96Centrelink Job Seeker Workshops for Stream 1 job seekers in their first \
13 weeks of unemployment. This measure  is  expected  to  reduce  Stream  1  job \
seekers\'92 time in unemployment and increase the rate at which they participate in \
the workforce, allowing greater assistance to be focused on highly disadvantaged \
job seekers \
\'95 Removal of Stream Services Reviews (SSR)\'97from 1 July 2012, job seekers will \
automatically enter the Work Experience Phase after 52 weeks of service or where \
appropriate, 78 weeks for Stream 4 job seekers \
\'95 Wage Connect\'97a wage subsidy to encourage employers to take on, and retain, \
eligible people who have been unemployed for at least two years, was successfully \
implemented on 1 January 2012. Wage Connect helps employers to offset the costs \
of wages and training of new employees for the first six months they are in a job. \
Wage Connect provides job seekers with the opportunity to gain paid work and to \
transition to greater financial independence. At the same time, employers will get \
help to offset the costs of wages and training for the first six months a person is \
employed. Wage Connect is also available to participants in Program 3.3 Disability \
Employment Services \
\'95 increased participation obligations for very long-term unemployed job seekers to \
undertake job training, Work for the Dole and other activity requirements for \
11 months of the year \
\'95 transition support for early school leavers (aged 15 to 21 years) which will fund JSA \
providers to deliver targeted assistance in the form of a structured activity of up to \
25 hours per week to help young people build life, study and employment skills DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 3 \
85 \
\'95 assistance to Parenting Payment recipients by supporting eligible unemployed \
parents to access professional career counselling to build motivation and \
confidence \
\'95 place-based demonstration pilots for highly disadvantaged job seekers in JSA \
through approximately 20 pilot projects of up to $200 000 each, in identified areas of \
high disadvantage, to model potential enhancements to Stream 4 service delivery \
including demonstrating partnerships with complementary service providers to \
improve employment and education outcomes \
\'95 immediate access to JSA services for workers who are made redundant from \
eligible companies in the live cattle export industry, Tasmanian forestry industry \
and companies affected by restructuring  at BlueScope Steel is provided at the \
Stream 2 and Stream 3 levels. Redundant workers from eligible companies in the \
automotive manufacturing and textile, clothing and footwear industries continue to \
receive immediate access to Stream 3 support. \
There are three elements designed to improve the employment outcomes for \
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander job seekers to commence from 1 July 2012: \
\uc0\u61623  a pilot program to trial intensive mentoring support for Aboriginal and Torres \
Strait Islander job seekers \
\uc0\u61623  online training to improve the cultural capability of JSA and DES providers \
\uc0\u61623  refreshed JSA and DES service guarantees to ensure culturally appropriate \
services are provided to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander job seekers. \
From 1 July 2012, JSA providers will be paid a single outcome payment for placing a \
job seeker in employment for 13 and 26 weeks. This replaces the former system where \
a provider could claim a higher payment for making direct contact with an employer \
to identify a vacancy before the job seeker secures the position and a lower payment \
for when the provider has upskilled and supported a job seeker to undertake a job \
search activity and secure an ongoing job themselves. \
The Government in this Budget has maintained the focus on the most disadvantaged \
by reducing the length of the Intensive Activity a job seeker in Stream 1 (that is the \
most job ready) must undertake from a  minimum of 40 hours to a minimum of \
25 hours. The Intensive Activity will also  be delivered after 26 weeks, rather than \
13 weeks. Reducing the Service Fee associated with Intensive Activities and moving \
the requirement for the activity to be delivered at 26 weeks minimises the costs \
associated with servicing job seekers who have the lowest level of disadvantage, the \
greatest level of job-readiness and are more likely to find a job on their own. \
   DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 3 \
86 \
From 1 September 2012, this Budget will also enable JSA providers to respond to the \
needs of employers by providing a financial reward to providers for the placement of \
Stream 1 job seekers into employment where the provider has sourced the position \
from an employer. Previously a job seeker had to have completed 3 months of \
servicing before the provider was eligible for a Job Placement Fee. \
The effectiveness of the employment services is measured by monitoring the \
proportion of job seekers in employment,  education and training and off benefits \
following assistance by the service, and conversely, the proportion of job seekers found \
to be failing to comply with their participation obligations without good reason. \
Linked to: Department of Families, Housing, Community Services and Indigenous \
Affairs \'96 Economic Development and Participation. \
Administered items \
\uc0\u61607  Job Services Australia ($6 billion over the next four years)\'97assists unemployed \
individuals to obtain the skills they need to ensure sustainable employment. \
Employment services providers help all eligible job seekers build linkages with \
employers, connect job seekers to appropriate training and skills development \
opportunities and build linkages with other key stakeholders. \
\'95 Disability Employment Services (more than $3.2 billion)\'97see Program 3.3. \
\'95 The Productive Ageing Package ($43.3 million from 2010\'9611 to 2014\'9615)\'97designed \
to assist mature-age Australians, who want to work, to remain engaged in the \
labour market by providing vital training and support and to encourage job \
retention and the transfer of their skills to younger generations.  \
Table 2.3.1 Administered expenses for Program 3.1\
Program 3.1 deliverables \
2011\'9612 \
Revised \
budget \
2012\'9613 \
Budget \
2013\'9614 2014\'9615 2015\'9616 \
Job Services Australia \
Total job placements achieved 450 000 450 000 450 000 450 000 450 000 \
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Annual administered expenses:\
Job Services Australia  1,490,135    1,544,929   1,480,393  1,463,215  1,409,465 \
Jobs Fund       38,800                  -                  -                 -                 - \
National Green Jobs Corps       18,750                  -                  -                 -                 - \
Pacific Seasonal Workers Program                 -           1,148             935         1,265         1,693 \
Productivity Education and Training Fund       10,000         10,000                  -                 -                 - \
Regional Education, Skills and Jobs Plans            442              442             442                 -                 - \
Mature Age Participation - job seeker assistance                 -           1,545          5,117         7,409       10,407 \
Productive Ageing Package         5,102           4,455          3,045                 -                 - \
Total program expenses 1,563,229 1,562,519  1,489,932  1,471,889 1,421,565DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 3 \
87 \
Program 3.1 key performance indicators \
2011\'9612 \
Revised \
budget \
2012\'9613 \
Budget \
2013\'9614 2014\'9615 2015\'9616 \
Cost per employment outcome for \
Employment Services delivered by \
Job Services Australia: \
         \
\'95 Stream 1-3 $4000 $3000 $3000 $3000 $3000 \
\'95 Stream 4 $12 000 $12 000 $12 000 $12 000 $12 000 \
Proportion of job seekers in \
employment three months \
following participation in \
Employment Services:      \
\'95 Stream 1 55% 55% 55% 55% 55% \
\'95 Stream 2 45% 50% 50% 50% 50% \
\'95 Stream 3 30% 30% 30% 30% 30% \
\'95 Stream 4 18% 25% 25% 25% 25% \
Proportion of job seekers in \
education/training three months \
following participation in \
Employment Services:      \
\'95 Stream 1 15% 15% 15% 15% 15% \
\'95 Stream 2 15% 15% 15% 15% 15% \
\'95 Stream 3 15% 15% 15% 15% 15% \
\'95 Stream 4 15% 15% 15% 15% 15% \
Proportion of job seekers off \
benefit three months following \
participation in Employment \
Services: \
         \
\'95 Stream 1 55% 55% 55% 55% 55% \
\'95 Stream 2 45% 50% 50% 50% 50% \
\'95 Stream 3 35% 35% 35% 35% 35% \
\'95 Stream 4 25% 30% 30% 30% 30% \
Proportion of job seekers off \
benefit 12 months following \
participation in Employment \
Services:       \
\'95 Stream 1 65% 65% 65% 65% 65% \
\'95 Stream 2 55% 60% 60% 60% 60% \
\'95 Stream 3 40% 40% 40% 40% 40% \
\'95 Stream 4 30% 35% 35% 35% 35% DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 3 \
88 \
Program 3.2 Indigenous Employment \
Program objective \
To increase Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples\'92 employment outcomes and \
participation in economic activities, contributing to the Government\'92s commitment to \
halve the gap in employment outcomes for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander \
peoples and other Australians within the decade. \
Achieving the Closing the Gap target of  halving the gap in employment outcomes \
remains a challenge. An additional 100 000 Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander \
peoples will need to be employed in the coming years in order to achieve the target. \
This means that the number of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples with a job \
will need to increase from around 168 000 in 2008 to about 267 000 in 2018. \
The target will be achieved not only by building the skills of unemployed Aboriginal \
and Torres Strait Islander peoples and assisting them into sustainable jobs, but also by \
increasing participation of Aboriginal and  Torres Strait Islander peoples not in the \
labour force. This will ensure Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander young people \
achieve well at school and transition effectively to further education, training or \
employment and promote higher skill development and career progression. \
The IEP offers funding for a range of activities focused on employment, training, \
aspiration building, and business support. The IEP complements employment services \
available under JSA and DES, which are the largest provider of employment services \
for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples. \
The services provide customised and flexible assistance for Aboriginal and Torres \
Strait Islander job seekers, including pre-employment and job-specific training; \
employment placement, support and mentoring to help Aboriginal and Torres Strait \
Islander peoples stay in work; and support for employers such as wage subsidies and \
cross-cultural training. \
Linked to: Department of Families, Housing, Community Services and Indigenous \
Affairs \'96 Economic Development and Participation. \
Administered items \
Assistance under the IEP includes: \
\'95 Tailored assistance is delivered by directly funding employers, Aboriginal and \
Torres Strait Islander businesses or individuals, or purchasing services from \
organisations on the Employment Panel and the Economic Development and \
Business Support Panel. \
\'95 Pre-designed assistance  includes streamlined access to wage subsidies and \
Indigenous cadetship support.  DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 3 \
89 \
\'95 The Indigenous Youth Career Pathways Program commenced in 2012 and provides \
support to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander secondary students to stay in \
school and undertake school-based traineeships. The program provides funding for \
one-on-one support to students participating in the program, along with school \
based aspiration building events and activities and some support for employers. \
$50.7 million has been allocated over four years to 2014\'9615. \
Table 2.3.2 Administered expenses Program 3.2\
Program 3.2 deliverables \
2011\'9612 \
Revised \
budget \
2012\'9613 \
Budget \
2013\'9614 2014\'9615 2015\'9616 \
Indigenous Employment \
Number of total commencements \
(includes commencements in \
employment, training and other \
assistance) 28 350 25 800 23 500 23 800 24 200 \
Number of employment \
commencements 15 600 14 200 12 900 13 100 13 300 \
Program 3.2 key performance indicators \
2011\'9612 \
Revised \
budget \
2012\'9613 \
Budget \
2013\'9614 2014\'9615 2015\'9616 \
Proportion of job seekers in \
employment and/or \
education/training (positive \
outcomes) three months following \
participation in Indigenous \
Employment Program 65% 65% 65% 65% 65% \
Program 3.3 Disability Employment Services \
Program objective \
Disability Employment Services (DES) has been in operation since 1 March 2010. The \
objective of the program is to help individuals with injury, disability or a health \
condition to secure and maintain sustainable employment. The DES program operates \
under the terms of the Disability Services Act 1986. \
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Annual administered expenses:\
Indigenous Employment Program  157,713   172,576  159,610  161,951  164,503 \
Total  pr ogr am   e xpe ns e s   172,576 157,713 159,610 161,951 164,503DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 3 \
90 \
The services focus on the needs of job seekers, with an increased emphasis on \
employment, skills development and education and training. Service providers \
consider the impact that a participant\'92s injury, disability or health condition has on \
their ability to find and retain a job, and provide appropriate tailored assistance to job \
seekers so that they can achieve sustainable outcomes. Where required, DES offers \
ongoing support in the workplace to help participants retain their employment. The \
DES comprises: \
\'95 Disability Management Service (DES-DMS)\'97for job seekers with disability, injury \
or health condition who require the assistance of a disability employment service, \
but are not expected to need long-term support in the workplace \
\'95 Employment Support Service (DES-ESS)\'97for job seekers with permanent disability \
and with an assessed need for more long-term, regular support in the workplace. \
The Senate Inquiry Report into the administration and purchasing of DES in Australia, \
tabled on 25 November 2011, made a  number of recommendations about the \
purchasing arrangements for DES-ESS. The Government responded to these \
recommendations on 17 February 2012.  \
The 2012\'9613 Budget, over the next four years, will invest more than $3.2 billion in DES. \
This includes the following measures to support participation for people with \
disability: \
\'95 Contracts for DES providers were extended from 1 July 2012, as announced in the \
2011\'9612 Budget. This includes extension of DES-DMS for three years in non-remote \
areas and extension of DES-ESS for eight months in non-remote areas. DES-DMS \
and DES-ESS contracts in remote areas were extended for 12 months. \
\'95 The Government announced that DES-ESS would be the subject of a competitive \
tender in 2012.  \
\'95 Four and five star DES-ESS providers will be offered a contract extension from \
4 March 2013. The remaining business will be put to open tender in late May 2012. \
The competitive tender process for DES-ESS business provides certainty that the \
best providers are delivering services to people with disability. New contracts will \
begin on 4 March 2013. \
Linked to: Department of Families, Housing, Community Services and Indigenous \
Affairs - Services and Support for People with Disability. \
Administered items \
DES offers two demand-driven programs to  help people with injury, disability or \
health condition to find employment: DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 3 \
91 \
\'95 Disability Management Service provides services to eligible job seekers with \
temporary or permanent injury, disability or health condition who require the \
assistance of a disability employment service and who may require flexible ongoing \
support but are not expected to need regular, long-term support in the workplace. \
\'95 Employment Support Service is available to those eligible job seekers with \
permanent disability who are assessed  as needing regular long-term ongoing \
support in the workplace. \
Employment assistance and other services are targeted to support employers employ \
people with disability and are comprised  of  the:  Employment  Assistance  Fund; \
Supported Wage System; Wage Subsidy Scheme and National Disability Recruitment \
Coordinator. \
Table 2.3.3 Administered expenses for Program 3.3\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Annual administered expenses:\
Disability Employment Services  824,310   817,393  838,683  799,795  765,807 \
Employment Assistance and Other Services    37,398     37,963    35,642    40,254    38,057 \
Total  pr ogr am   e xpe ns e s      861,708   855,356  874,325  840,049  803,864 DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 3 \
92 \
Program 3.3 deliverables \
2011\'9612 \
Revised \
budget \
2012\'9613 \
Budget \
2013\'9614 2014\'9615 2015\'9616 \
Employment assistance and other services\'97Disability Employment Services \
Number of commencements \
         \
\'95 Disability Management Service 50 000 50 000 50 000 50 000 50 000 \
\'95 Employment Support Service 50 000 45 000 45 000 45 000 45 000 \
Total job placements achieved \
\'95 Disability Management Service 23 000 31 000 31 000 31 000 31 000 \
\'95 Employment Support Service 24 000 34 000 34 000 34 000 34 000 \
Employment assistance and other Services\'97employer Incentives and other services \
\'95 Other Disability Employment \
including assistance and \
services\'97Employer Incentives \
Scheme incorporating Wage \
Subsidy Scheme, Supported \
Wage System and Employment \
Assistance Fund 15 000 16 500 16 500 16 500 16 500 \
\'95 National Disability Recruitment \
Coordinator 1000 1000 1000 1000 \
Program  \
ceases \
2015 \
Program 3.3 key performance indicators \
2011\'9612 \
Revised \
budget \
2012\'9613 \
Budget \
2013\'9614 2014\'9615 2015\'9616 \
Proportion of job seekers in \
employment three months following \
participation in Employment \
Services: \
         \
\'95 Disability Management Service 22% 45% 45% 45% 45% \
\'95 Employment Support Service 17% 40% 40% 40% 40% \
   DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 3 \
93 \
Program 3.4 Remote Jobs and Communities Program \
Program objective \
The new Remote Jobs and Communities Program (RJCP) objective is to build jobs and \
create sustainable communities in Remote Australia. The RJCP will be jointly \
administered by the department and FaHCSIA. RJCP providers will work in \
partnership with communities to develop Action Plans, which set out the framework \
to meet employment, economic and community development goals. \
The RJCP will provide people living in remote communities with access to improved \
services that will help drive structural improvements in communities to develop the \
opportunities and social norms that encourage and support employment, particularly \
for the young. Central to the new integrated RJCP will be demand-driven \'91jobs first\'92 \
employment and participation services. A key component of this will be a \
Participation Account which will provide funding to assist participants overcome \
vocational and non-vocational barriers in the context of community participation \
activities that are \'91work like\'92 and of benefit to the community. In addition the new \
Remote Youth Leadership and Development Corps will see young job seekers \
undertake a structured program of up to 12 months to get them job ready, with a \
specific focus on providing work experience in jobs that are available in or near their \
community. \
Funding will also be provided to support employer engagement and economic \
development in communities, including  through the appointment of remote \
employment and economic development coordinators. Providers will work in close \
partnership with communities to determine collective and individual goals. A \
Community Development Fund managed by  FaHCSIA  is  also  part  of  the  RJCP \
package. Projects under the fund will support larger community development projects, \
which lead to sustained economic growth and positive change in the community. \
These will be developed by the community and will provide employment and \
participation opportunities for local people. \
The key features of the RJCP will be: \
\'95 a single provider servicing one of 65 remote servicing regions with a permanent \
presence in that region \
\'95 the provider delivering services in partnership with the community underpinned \
by a mutually developed Community Action Plan \
\'95 all communities and job seekers engaged in meaningful activities in line with their \
participation requirements and work capacity.  \
Further development of the Performance Management Framework will be undertaken \
in the 2012\'9613 financial year. The framework will feature a set of three key \
performance indicators (KPIs) set out in the table below. DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 3 \
94 \
Key Performance Indicator Possible points of measurement \
KPI 1: Community engagement \
and participation \
Sign-on to community activities, referrals and \
commencements, participation and engagement \
outcomes identified in community plans \
KPI 2: Employment and \
education \
Employment and education outcomes \
KPI 3: Quality Provider capability, service delivery outcomes, \
stakeholder engagement, governance\
Table 2.3.4 Administered expenses for Program 3.4\
Program 3.5 Working Age Payments \
Program objective \
Working age payments support people to improve their prospects of gaining \
employment, acquire labour market skills and knowledge and participate in society. \
Financial assistance is provided to people who are: unemployed; looking for work; \
undertaking employment preparation programs; have parenting responsibilities; have \
a partial capacity to work due to disability or young people studying towards a \
Year 12 or equivalent education attainment. The 2012-13 Budget includes measures \
that will provide additional support for payment recipients to help them manage \
unanticipated financial pressures: \
\'95 Job seekers, Parenting Payment and ABSTUDY (Living Allowance) recipients will \
receive a new income support supplement from  20 March 2013 of $210 per year for \
singles and $175 per year for each member of a couple. The supplement will be \
indexed and paid in two instalments in March and September each year. \
\'95 From 1 July 2013, new claimants for Newstart Allowance, Sickness Allowance and \
Youth Allowance will be able to keep more of their savings. The Liquid Assets \
Waiting Period thresholds will be doubled from $2500 to $5000 for a single person \
and from $5000 to $10 000 for a person who is partnered or has dependent children. \
   \
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Annual administered expenses:\
Remote Participation and Employment Services             -          168  201,016  187,200  233,629 \
Remote Youth Leadership and Development Corp             -              -      7,000    14,000    21,000 \
Total  pr ogr am   e xpe ns e s   -                      168  208,016  201,200  254,629 DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 3 \
95 \
Workforce participation will be encouraged and there will be greater equity in income \
support eligibility for parents with the cessation of grandfathering arrangements \
introduced in 2006.  From 1 January 2013 grandfathered parents will be subject to the \
same income support eligibility rules as other parents and will cease to be eligible for \
Parenting Payment when their youngest child is 6 (for partnered parents) and 8 (for \
single parents). Parenting Payment recipients may then transfer to Newstart \
Allowance, if eligible. This measure brings forward the gradual withdrawal of \
grandfathering announced in the 2011-12 Budget. \
Measures announced as part of the Building Australia\'92s Future Workforce package in \
the 2011\'9612 Budget to support participation by young people and jobless families will \
be implemented in 2012\'9613 (subject to the passage of legislation) and include: \
\'95 improving work incentives for unemployed young people through increasing the \
income test free area of Youth Allowance (other) from $62 a fortnight to $143 a \
fortnight,  complemented by an  increase in the Working Credit from $1000 to $3500 \
from 1 July 2012 \
\'95 improving study incentives and strengthening participation requirements from \
1 July 2012 for 21-year-old job seekers by closing Newstart Allowance to all new \
applicants aged 21 (they will instead be eligible for Youth Allowance (other)) and \
extending the Learn or Earn requirements to 21-year-old Youth Allowance (other) \
recipients who do not have a Year 12 or equivalent qualification \
\'95 improving incentives to work from 1 January 2013 by relaxing the income test taper \
rate for single principal carers on Newstart Allowance \
Linked to: Department of Human Services is responsible for the delivery of income \
support payments. \
Administered items \
\'95 Compensation and debt relief\'97provides  access for eligible recipients to \
discretionary payments in special circumstances or financial relief from amounts \
owing to the Commonwealth. \
\'95 Mobility Allowance\'97a non-means tested income supplement for people with \
disability who are unable to use public transport without substantial assistance. \
\'95 Newstart Allowance\'97provides income support for eligible job seekers aged \
between 21 years (22 years from 1 July 2012, subject to the passage of legislation) \
and Age Pension age. Recipients must satisfy an activity test by seeking and \
accepting suitable work and participating  in activities designed to improve their \
employment prospects. DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 3 \
96 \
\'95 Parenting Payment\'97provides income support for the principal carer of a child \
aged under six years if the carer is partnered or under eight years if the carer is \
single. \
\'95 Partner Allowance\'97provides assistance to mature-age people who are partners of \
income support recipients and who face difficulty gaining employment due to a \
lack of recent workforce experience. This allowance was closed to new claimants on \
20 September 2003. \
\'95 Pensioner Education Supplement\'97a fortnightly payment to certain income support \
recipients who are participating in approved full-time or part-time study. \
\'95 Sickness Allowance\'97an income support payment for people aged 21 years and \
over (22 years and over from 1 July 2012, subject to the passage of legislation) but \
under Age Pension age who are temporarily incapacitated for work or study as a \
result  of  illness  or  injury,  are  unable  to  work  or  study,  and  have  a  job  or  course  of \
study to return to. \
\'95 Utilities Allowance\'97a supplement paid to eligible income support recipients of \
Widow Allowance and Partner Allowance to assist with their household bills. \
\'95 Widow Allowance\'97provides income support for older working age women who \
no longer have a partner and have no recent workforce experience. This allowance \
is being phased out and eligibility is limited to women born on or before \
1 July 1955. \
\'95 Youth Allowance (other)\'97an income support payment available to eligible young \
people aged 16 to 20 years (16 to 21 years from 1 July 2012, subject to the passage of \
legislation) who may be required to seek or prepare for paid employment or, until \
they attain a Year 12 or an equivalent Certificate II qualification, undertake study or \
training in combination with other approved activities. DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 3 \
97 \
Table 2.3.5 Administered expenses for Program 3.5 \
Program 3.5 key performance indicators* \
2011\'9612 \
Revised \
budget \
2012\'9613 \
Budget \
2013\'9614 2014\'9615 2015\'9616 \
Average (mean) duration on \
income support by current income \
support payment (weeks): \
         \
Newstart Allowance 178 187 197 205 213 \
\'95 Youth Allowance (Other) 86 89 90 89 88 \
\'95 Parenting Payment Single 361 351 345 340 340 \
Percentage of income support \
recipients who exit income support \
within three months of grant: \
         \
\'95 Newstart Allowance 32 32 31 31 31 \
\'95 Youth Allowance (Other) 33 36 38 41 41 \
Percentage of income support \
recipients who exit income support \
within 12 months of grant: \
         \
\'95 Newstart Allowance 72 75 77 79 79 \
\'95 Youth Allowance (Other) 71 71 71 71 71 \
*Indicators to be reviewed to take into account legislative changes\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Annual administered expenses:\
Compensation and Debt Relief              198               198              198               198               198 \
Special Appropriations:\
Social Security (Administration) Act 1999\
Mobility Allow ance       139,686        143,501       147,255        151,241        156,820 \
New start Allow ance    6,590,474     7,766,968    8,585,907     7,875,716     8,529,865 \
Parenting Payment Single    4,737,198     4,247,628    4,046,953     4,176,937     4,040,668 \
Parenting Payment Partnered    1,062,116     1,017,422    1,001,902     1,017,453     1,008,604 \
Partner Allow ance Benefit         17,704          10,995           4,682               503               412 \
Partner Allow ance Pension       157,831          99,661         55,720            4,443                   - \
Pensioner Education Supplement         81,095          73,112         68,307          64,693          74,189 \
Sickness Allow ance         91,288          92,485         95,708          96,132        103,395 \
Utilities Allow ance         20,400          19,176         18,459          15,662          15,197 \
Widow Allow ance       401,691        367,536       361,127        330,279        308,218 \
Youth Allow ance (Other)       751,484        922,677    1,118,558     1,026,967     1,098,008 \
Total program expenses 14,051,165 14,761,359 15,504,776 14,760,224 15,335,574DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 3 \
98 \
Outcome 3  Departmental outputs \
Table 2.4B  Performance information for Outcome 3 departmental outputs  \
Performance indicator 2012\'9613 estimate \
Program management \
Employment IT applications: defect density for \
important defect types is measured by the \
mean defect from the International Software \
Benchmarking Standards Group (ISBSG) \
repository of major defects \
Benchmark: Mean defect density (major \
severity) = 15 defects per 1000 function points \
(to be measured four weeks after software \
release) \
Employment IT applications services\'97\
construction and redevelopment of internally \
developed software \
Cost benchmark is $1250 per function point. \
Target is $1250 or less \
Employment IT applications availability Target is 99.5% \
Services provided by DHS on behalf of \
DEEWR programs satisfy jointly agreed \
performance requirements including detailed \
Key Performance Measures with specific \
targets.  \
DHS met majority of DEEWR requirements \
and departments worked collaboratively to \
address performance issues where targets \
were not met  \
Client satisfaction \
Level of satisfaction of service providers with \
contracted information and support \
Target is 80% \
High quality advice as measured by the level \
of satisfaction by Commonwealth public sector \
agencies and organisations \
Qualitative evaluation of satisfaction using \
feedback from Commonwealth public sector \
agencies and organisations DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 4 \
99 \
Outcome 4: Safer, fairer and more productive workplaces for employers and \
employees by promoting and supporting the adoption of fair and flexible \
workplace arrangements and safer working arrangements \
Outcome 4 strategy \
One of the Australian Government\'92s core economic policy objectives is improving \
Australia\'92s productive capacity. \
Maintaining the successful operation of the national workplace relations system \
contributes to improving Australia\'92s productivity. The national system\'92s focus is on \
collective bargaining at the enterprise level, underpinned by a safety net of minimum \
employment standards and a suite of simplified modern awards that give employers \
and employees the capacity to create more flexible and innovative ways of working \
together. \
To that end, the department\'92s focus is on  ensuring the system\'92s  effective operation, \
primarily through the provision of policy advice to government on the operation of the \
system and assisting employers and employees to understand their rights and \
obligations under that system. A key focus in that regard will be the provision of \
policy advice to Government concerning its response to any recommendations which \
might be made by the panel undertaking the post-implementation review of the Fair \
Work Act 2009. Similarly, the review of modern  awards by Fair Work Australia will \
also be an area of continuing focus. The department will continue to work \
cooperatively with state and territory governments to ensure the ongoing effectiveness \
of the national system. \
The department also has a strong focus on other measures that are potentially \
significant in improving productivity, such as the development and support of high \
performing workplaces. \
The Government\'92s skills agenda also contributes to improving Australia\'92s productive \
capacity. In this regard, the department will focus on ensuring that the workplace \
relations system supports the development of a training system that is responsive to \
the needs of industry and better encourages the take-up and completion of \
apprenticeships and traineeships. The implementation of national approaches to \
Occupational Health and Safety (OHS)  will assist to increase productivity. \
Harmonising OHS laws will cut red tape, boost business efficiency and provide greater \
certainty and protection for all workplace  parties. The Australian Government will \
continue to work closely with state and territory governments yet to harmonise OHS \
legislation. \
The department supports the Minister for  Employment and Workplace Relations in \
progressing OHS reform with policy advice on the development of model OHS \
legislation and regulations and represents the Commonwealth\'92s interests in the \
development of the model laws by Safe Work Australia. DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 4 \
100 \
Strategies to achieve the intended result of Outcome 4 focus on the provision of policy \
advice to the Minister, program management, policy implementation activities and \
involvement in relevant court and tribunal proceedings. The department will work \
closely with existing workplace relations agencies including Fair Work Australia, the \
Fair Work Ombudsman, the Australian Building and Construction Commission (and \
its replacement the Fair Work Building Industry Inspectorate when it is established) \
and Safe Work Australia. \
Other work includes: the establishment of the Road Safety Remuneration Tribunal for \
the road transport industry; responding to the recommendations of the Asbestos \
Management Review; international labour developments; maintaining the Workplace \
Agreements Database and analysing data about coverage, wage increases and \
employment conditions in federal enterprise agreements; and legislating the Fair \
Entitlements Guarantee to replace the General Employee Entitlements and \
Redundancy Scheme (GEERS). DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 4 \
101 \
Table 2.4A  Budgeted expenses and resources for Outcome 4  \
2011-12 2012-13\
Estimated Estimated\
actual expenses\
expenses\
$'000 $'000\
Pr ogr am   4.1:  Em  ploye e   As s is tance\
Administered expenses\
Ordinary annual services (Appropriation Bill No. 1)        202,975 199,386        \
Special appropriations 152,423        152,423        \
Total for Program 4.1 351,809        355,398        \
Program 4.2: Workplace Assistance\
Administered expenses\
Ordinary annual services (Appropriation Bill No. 1) 11,153          10,662          \
Total for Program 4.2 11,153          10,662          \
Program 4.3: Workers Compensation Payments\
Administered expenses\
Ordinary annual services (Appropriation Bill No. 1) 14,403          6,300            \
Special appropriations 58,060          67,551          \
Total for Program 4.3 72,463          73,851          \
Outcome 4 Totals by appropriation type\
Administered Expenses\
Ordinary annual services (Appropriation Bill No. 1)        219,937 224,942        \
Special appropriations 210,483        219,974        \
Departmental expenses\
Departmental appropriation \
1\
          50,228 49,242          \
Expenses not requiring appropriation in the Budget year \
2\
            7,739 8,041            \
Total expenses for Outcome 4 492,708        497,878        \
2011-12 2012-13\
Average Staffing Level (number)               360 378               \
1  \
Departmental Appropria tion comb ines  "Ord inary annual se rvices  (Appropria tion Bill No. 1)" and  "Revenue  from \
independent sources  (s31)"  .\
2 \
Expenses not  requiring appropria tion  in   the Budget year  is made up of Deprec ia tion Expense, Amortisa tion \
Expense, Makegood Expense, Audit Fees.\
Outcome 4: Safer, fairer and more productive workplaces for \
employers and employees by promoting and supporting the \
adoption of fair and flexible w orkplace arrangements and safer \
working arrangements.DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 4 \
102 \
Outcome 4 objective \
To provide high-quality advice and services relating to the Government\'92s workplace \
relations policies and programs to: \
\'95 maintain a workplace relations system that is fair, modern and flexible \
\'95 promote productivity through good faith  collective bargaining at the enterprise \
level \
\'95 maintain a clear and enforceable safety net comprised of modern awards and the \
legislated National Employment Standards \
\'95 encourage fair National Minimum Wage outcomes through the Fair Work Australia \
Annual Wage Review \
\'95 build awareness of workplace rights and obligations \
\'95 support ongoing harmonisation of the OHS legislation. \
The effectiveness of Outcome 4 activities in achieving the Government\'92s policy and \
program commitments can be measured using a number of indicators: \
\'95 Labour productivity trends as measured by the most common measure of \
productivity, which is Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per hour, worked in the \
market sector (annual trend terms). \
\'95 Wages growth, which is assessed in terms of the ABS Wage Price Index. \
\'95 Low incidence of industrial action. Working days lost per thousand employees \
(WDL/000E) for Australia as a whole and the number of working days lost in \
federal bargaining disputes, in recognition of variations in the number of \
agreements being renegotiated. \
\'95 Collective bargaining is widely used by employers and employees to negotiate pay \
and conditions. \
\'95 Harmonised OHS legislation supports improvements in workplace safety (the \
effectiveness indicators for this are located in the Safe Work Australia section of this \
document). \
Most data for these indicators are available from official statistical agencies and are \
affected by a range of factors. Data is collected some time after an intervention has \
occurred. Current data together with relevant comparison to determine effectiveness is \
provided in Table 2.4B. DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 4 \
103 \
Program 4.1 Employee Assistance \
Program objective \
This program is directed at either providing safety net support for employees in \
certain circumstances or, alternatively, supporting long standing industry \
arrangements which deliver employee benefits. \
Administered items \
\'95 Coal Mining Industry (Long Service Leave) Administration Act 1992 financing \
arrangements\'97under this Act the cost of portable long service leave entitlements is \
managed through a central fund administered by the Coal Mining Industry (Long \
Service Leave Funding) Corporation. Monthly levy collection transfers are made \
from the consolidated revenue fund to the central fund. \
\'95 General Employee Entitlements and Redundancy Scheme (GEERS)\'97a safety net \
payment scheme established to assist employees who have lost their employment \
due to the liquidation or bankruptcy of their employer and who are owed certain \
employee entitlements. \
Table 2.4.1 Administered expenses for Program 4.1\
Program 4.2 Workplace Assistance \
Program objective \
To ensure the successful operation of the  workplace relations system, in particular \
through initiatives designed to demonstrate the benefit of cooperative workplace \
relations and/or to assist employers and employees understand their rights and \
obligations under the system. \
Administered items \
\'95 International Labour Organization (ILO) membership subscription\'97covers the \
Government's membership of the ILO. This enables the Government to participate \
fully in the development of international labour standards, progress ratification of \
standards at the national level, report to the ILO on Conventions and workplace \
relations reforms and participate as a member of the ILO Governing Body. \
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Annual administered expenses:\
General Employee Entitlements and Redundancy \
Scheme  199,386   202,975  206,628  210,142  214,135 \
Special Appropriations:\
Coal Mining Industry (LSL) Funding Act 1992\
Coal Mining Industry Commission  152,423   152,423  152,423  152,423  152,423 \
Total  pr ogr am   e xpe ns e s      351,809   355,398  359,051  362,565  366,558 DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 4 \
104 \
\'95 Protected Action Ballots Scheme\'97pays the costs incurred by the Australian \
Electoral Commission in relation to protected action ballots.  \
Table 2.4.2 Administered expenses for Program 4.2\
Program 4.3 Workers Compensation Payments \
Program objective \
The Safety Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 1988\'97s90D is appropriated for the \
purposes of Comcare\'92s Outcome 2. \'91An early and safe return to work and access to \
compensation for injured workers covered by the Comcare scheme through working in \
partnership with employers to create best practice in rehabilitation and quick and \
accurate management of workers\'92 compensation claims\'92. \
The Asbestos related claims Act 2005\'97s8(2) is appropriated for the purposes of \
Comcare\'92s Outcome 3. \'91Access to compensation for people with asbestos-related \
diseases where the Commonwealth has a liability through management of claims\'92. \
Agency Resources and Planned Performance information can be found in the Comcare \
section of this document. \
Program expenses \
\'95 The Special Appropriation under s90D of the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation \
Act 1988  (Grants received from Portfolio Departments) relates to workers\'92 \
compensation claims that were accepted prior to the establishment of the Comcare \
premium scheme on 1 July 1989. The costs of these claims are funded from the \
Consolidated Revenue Fund. \
\'95 Asbestos related claims Act 2005 \'96 s8(2)  special appropriation is used for claims \
administration and claims settlements costs which are expected to remain relatively \
stable in the budget and forward years. The movement (non-cash) in outstanding \
claims liabilities is expected to reduce over the forward estimates. \
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Annual administered expenses:\
Protected Action Ballots Scheme      1,600       1,600      1,600      1,600      1,600 \
Home Workers Code of Practice Program         250              -              -              -              - \
International Labour Organisation Subscription      8,903       8,262      8,262      8,336      8,410 \
Social and Community Workers Education and \
Information Program         400          800              -              -              - \
Total  pr ogr am   e xpe ns e s           11,153     10,662      9,862      9,936    10,010 DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 4 \
105 \
Table 2.4.3 Administered expenses for Program 4.3\
Program components \
\'95 Comcare Outcome 2 Management of premium claims. \
\'95 Comcare Outcome 3 Management of common law asbestos claims. \
Program deliverables \
\'95 Compensation decisions that are consistent, prompt and fair. \
\'95 Better support for Comcare decision makers through improved insight and \
business process reforms in response to trends identified through accurate and \
accessible data. \
\'95 Expectations of employers\'92 roles and responsibilities as rehabilitation authorities \
are clear and are supported by targeted audits and regulatory activity. \
\'95 Manage asbestos-related claims liabilities consistently and in accordance with \
relevant legislation or Australian Government policies. \
\'95 Support Safe Work Australia to harmonise approaches to safety, statutory and \
common law compensation for workplace dust diseases. \
\'95 Maintain accurate data and other information about asbestos-related liabilities to \
ensure accurate valuation of future projected liabilities. \
\'95 Delivery of practical programs and research which raise awareness of asbestos, \
improve its management and removal and provide better treatment and support \
for asbestos-related disease sufferers and their families. \
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Annual administered expenses:\
Comcare    14,403       6,300      6,354      6,283      6,340 \
Special Appropriations:\
Asbestos related claims Act 2005\
Asbestos Compensation Payments    23,270     27,890    31,332    32,877    34,005 \
Safety, Rehabilitation & Compensation Act 1998\
Workers Compensation Payments    34,790     39,661    24,454    28,599    32,505 \
Total  pr ogr am   e xpe ns e s           72,463     73,851    62,140    67,759    72,850 DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 4 \
106 \
Program key performance indicators\
12\
Comcare Outcome 3 Management of premium claims \
Key performance indicators are: \
\'95 employers\'92 and injured workers\'92 satisfaction with recovery and support services \
\'95 other key performance indicators described in the table below. \
2011\'9612 \
Revised \
budget\
2012\'9613 \
Budget\
2013\'9614 2014\'9615 2015\'9616 \
Durable return to work rate (ie the \
percentage of injured workers with \
two weeks lost time who were \
working in a paid job 7 to 9 months \
after lodging their claim) 79 89 90 90 90 \
Funding ratio (ie percentage of \
premium-related total assets to \
premium-related total liabilities) 71% 74% 78% 82% 86% \
Percentage of licensees compliant \
with licensing obligations 100 100 100 100 100 \
Commonwealth average premium \
rate 1.41 1.80 1.80 1.80 1.80 \
                                                          \
12\
  Note the inclusion of new performance indicators to reflect the two components of this \
program. In previous years only indicators for Comcare Outcome 3 (Management of \
common law asbestos claims) have been included. DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 4 \
107 \
Comcare Outcome 4 Management of common law asbestos claims \
Key performance indicators are: \
\uc0\u61607  the extent to which Comcare complies with the Commonwealth Legal Service \
Directions, the management objectives contained in the Asbestos Litigation Policy \
Statement and any court/tribunal rules/orders in respect of all asbestos-related \
disease claims \
\uc0\u61607  the accuracy and completeness of data given to the external actuaries for the \
purpose of the annual actuarial valuation of asbestos-related liabilities \
\uc0\u61607  other performance measures described in the table below. \
2011\'9612 \
Revised \
budget\
2012\'9613 \
Budget\
2013\'9614 2014\'9615 2015\'9616 \
The percentage of primary \
asbestos claims settled by \
Comcare within 180 calendar days 67 65 65 65 65 \
Percentage of the value of \
asbestos claims settlements \
recovered from third parties 8 5 5 5 5 \
Outcome 4 Deliverables and key performance indicators \
Data is not provided for deliverables because the administered items address legal or \
administrative issues rather than advancing major government initiatives. \
Table 2.4B Key performance indicators for Outcome 4 \
December \
quarter 2010 \
December \
quarter 2011 \
Comments \
The federal workplace relationship system supports improved productivity outcomes \
Productivity as \
measured by output \
per hour worked in \
the market sector \
(annual, trend terms) \
-0.9%  2.2% Short term changes in \
productivity growth should be \
interpreted with caution \
because quarterly and \
annual rates of labour \
productivity are prone to \
volatile and cyclical effects \
and data are often revised by \
the ABS with updated \
information. \
ABS Wage Price \
Index (annual, \
seasonal adjusted \
terms) \
3.9%  3.6% The annual WPI reflects the \
solid economic growth in the \
Australian economy as the \
demand for skilled labour \
continues to grow. Wages \
growth, nevertheless, \
remains contained. \
Low incidence of industrial action (allowing for variations in the bargaining cycle) DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 4 \
108 \
December \
quarter 2010 \
December \
quarter 2011 \
Comments \
Working days lost per \
thousand employees \
(annual WDL/000E) \
12.8  23.9 Nil. \
Working days lost in \
federal bargaining \
disputes (annual, \
WDL) \
94 200  Not Available The ABS did not publish data \
on working days lost in \
federal bargaining disputes \
for the September quarter \
2011 and the March quarter \
2011. As a result the annual \
December quarter 2011 \
figure is not available. \
Collective bargaining is widely used by employers and employees to negotiate pay and \
conditions \
Number of agencies \
whose employees \
had their pay \
determined by an \
enterprise agreement \
made under the Fair \
Work Act 2009\
13\
8000 agency Fair \
Work Act \
agreements \
approved (as at \
31 Dec 2010) \
14 282 agency \
Fair Work Act \
agreements \
approved (as at \
30 Sept 2011) \
Nil. \
Outcome 4 Departmental outputs \
The bulk of the effort supporting Outcome 4 is funded through departmental \
appropriations. The department works to encourage employers and employees to \
adopt fair and flexible workplace arrangements. In 2012\'9613 the department will: \
\'95 promote work/life balance including options for flexible working arrangements \
\'95 work with Safe Work Australia and the Select Council on Workplace Relations to \
maintain model OHS laws and encourage those jurisdictions that are yet to do so to \
implement harmonised arrangements \
\'95 continue to work with the building and construction industry to improve \
workplace relations and OHS in the building and construction industry \
\'95 develop a website that links with the National Workers\'92 Memorial to honour and \
pay tribute to all working Australians who have died as a result of work-related \
accidents, incidents and disease \
                                                          \
13\
  This indicator previously measured the number of employees covered under enterprise \
agreements made under the  Fair Work Act 2009 (2.7 million as at May 2010). It has been \
amended to now measure the number of agencies represented. DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 4 \
109 \
\'95 administer a safety net scheme for the protection of employee entitlements in cases \
of business insolvency \
\'95 administer the HomeWorkers Code of Practice program that supports the \
development and promotion of the HomeWorkers Code of Practice and the \'91Ethical \
Clothing Australia\'92 label \
\'95 encourage the implementation of international labour standards at the national \
level through work towards ratification of priority ILO conventions \
\'95 support research to provide an evidence base for workplace relations policy leading \
to fairer and more productive workplaces \
\'95 pursue options for promoting the development of collaborative, flexible and \
sustainable workplaces \
\'95 develop Australian Government submissions to the Fair Work Australia Annual \
Wage Review 2012\'9613. \
In 2012\'9613 the major priorities for the department will be the provision of policy \
advice on: the operation of the Fair Work Act, ensuring the workplace relations system \
supports the Government\'92s skills reforms and assists in encouraging the take-up and \
completion of apprenticeships and traineeships; building and construction industry \
workplace relations matters; the new Road Safety Remuneration system: the Asbestos \
Management Review; legislating the Fair Entitlements Guarantee to replace the \
General Employee Entitlements and Redundancy Scheme (GEERS); and harmonisation \
of OHS laws. \
Table 2.4C Performance information for Outcome 4 departmental outputs  \
Performance indicator 2012\'9613 estimate \
Program management \
Timeliness of processing claims for the \
General Employee Entitlements and \
Redundancy Scheme \
80% processed within 16 weeks of receipt \
98% processed within 4 weeks of receipt of \
verified entitlement data \
Accuracy of processing claims for the General \
Employee Entitlements and Redundancy \
Scheme \
Over 98% of payments not varied after appeal \
Satisfaction of stakeholders (insolvency \
practitioners) with the management of the \
General Employee Entitlements and \
Redundancy Scheme \
Satisfied or above \
Timeliness of departmental responses to client \
requests for assessment of industrial \
instruments against the code and guidelines \
95% completed within 10 working days \
Client satisfaction with Fresh Ideas for Work \
and Family \
80% of clients surveyed satisfied DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 4 \
110 \
Performance indicator 2012\'9613 estimate \
Level of satisfaction of clients with the \
provision of advice, information, education and \
promotion of safer workplaces on Australian \
Government construction sites by the Office of \
the Federal Safety Commissioner \
Effective or above DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 5 \
111 \
Outcome 5: A growth in skills, qualifications and productivity through funding to \
improve teaching quality, learning, and tertiary sector infrastructure, \
international promotion of Australia\'92s education and training sectors, and \
partnerships with industry \
The department\'92s responsibilities changed during the 2011-12 financial year as a result \
of the Administrative Arrangements Order  (AAO) that took effect on 14 December \
2011. The responsibility for Tertiary Education, Skills and International functions and \
policy has been transferred from the department, to the Department of Industry, \
Innovation, Science, Research and Tertiary Education.    \
To record the part-year effect of those functions that have transferred, the \
2012-13 Portfolio Budget Statements include Outcome 5 (formerly Outcome 3 as \
published in the 2011-12 Education, Employment and Workplace Relations Portfolio \
Budget Statements), which details administered program estimates that have \
transferred to the Industry, Innovation, Science, Research and Tertiary Education \
portfolio during 2011-12.   \
The departmental resourcing impacts for both agencies are included in this publication \
on an interim basis pending final agreement. It is expected that following the \
finalisation of the 2011-12 Final Budget Outcome, the Department of Education, \
Employment and Workplace Relations will no longer publish estimates or \
performance information for Outcome 5. \
All key performance information for the administered programs reported below will \
be available in the 2012-13 Industry, Innovation, Science, Research and Tertiary \
Education Portfolio Budget Statements.DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 5 \
112 \
Table 2.1 Budgeted Expenses for Outcome 5\
2011-12 2012-13\
Estimated Estimated\
actual expenses\
expenses\
$'000 $'000\
Program 5.1: Higher Education Support\
Administered expenses\
Ordinary annual services (Appropriation Bill No. 1) 1,490            -                    \
Special appropriations 2,810,515     -                    \
Special Accounts 91,141          -                    \
Total for Program 5.1 2,903,146                         -\
Program 5.2: Higher Education Loan Program\
Administered expenses\
Special appropriations 756,831        -                    \
Total for Program 5.2 756,831                            -\
Program 5.3: Tertiary Student Assistance\
Administered expenses\
Ordinary annual services (Appropriation Bill No. 1) 700               -                    \
Special appropriations 1,587,839     -                    \
Total for Program 5.3 1,588,539                         -\
Program 5.5: VET National Support\
Administered expenses\
Ordinary annual services (Appropriation Bill No. 1)        - 969,881                    \
Special Accounts 16,190          -                    \
Total for Program 5.5 986,071                            -\
Program 5.6: International Education Support\
Administered expenses\
Ordinary annual services (Appropriation Bill No. 1) 26,127          -                    \
Total for Program 5.6 26,127                              -\
Outcome 5 Totals by appropriation type\
Administered Expenses\
Ordinary annual services (Appropriation Bill No. 1)        - 998,198                    \
Special appropriations 5,155,185     -                    \
Special Accounts 107,331        -                    \
Departmental expenses\
Departmental appropriation \
1\
        - 142,680                    \
Expenses not requiring appropriation in the Budget year \
2\
          - 29,370                    \
Total expenses for Outcome 5 6,432,764                         -\
2011-12 2012-13\
Average Staffing Level (number)               - 909                    \
1  \
Departmental Appropria tion comb ines  "Ord inary annual se rvices  (Appropria tion Bill No. 1)" and  "Revenue  from \
independent sources  (s31)"  .\
2 \
Expenses not  requiring appropria tion  in   the Budget year  is made up of Deprec ia tion Expense, Amortisa tion \
Expense, Makegood Expense, Audit Fees.\
Outcome 5: A growth in skills, qualifications and productivity \
through funding to improve teaching quality, learning, and \
tertiary sector infrastructure, international promotion of \
Australia's education and training sectors, and partnerships \
w ith  indus tr yDEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 5 \
113 \
Program 5.1 Higher Education Support \
Table 2.5.1 Administered expenses for Program 5.1\
Program 5.2 Higher Education Loan Program \
Table 2.5.2 Administered expenses for Program 5.2\
   \
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Annual administered expenses:\
Tertiary Education Quality and Standards Agency      1,125              -              -              -              - \
Indigenous Higher Education Advisory Council         283              -              -              -              - \
Higher Education Special Projects           82              -              -              -              - \
Special Appropriations:\
Higher Education Support Act 2003             -              -              -              - \
Commonw ealth Grants Scheme   2,576,886 \
             - \
                     -                      -                      - \
Higher Education Participation and Partnerships \
Program    49,007              -              -              -              - \
Disability Support Program      6,008              -              -              -              - \
Indigenous Support Program    18,321              -              -              -              - \
Diversity and Structural Adjustment    23,602              -              -              -              - \
Quality Initiatives    13,078              -              -              -              - \
Open Learning Initiatives         245              -              -              -              - \
National Institutes    91,404              -              -              -              - \
Commonw ealth Scholarships      7,017              -              -              -              - \
Higher Education Special Projects (Capital\
Development Pool)    24,947              -              -              -              - \
Special Account Expenses: \
Education Investment Fund    91,141              -              -              -              - \
Total  pr ogr am   e xpe ns e s     2,903,146             -              -              -              - \
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Special Appropriations:\
Higher Education Support Act 2003\
Higher Education Loan Program  756,831              -              -              -              - \
Total  pr ogr am   e xpe ns e s      756,831              -              -              -              - DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 5 \
114 \
Program 5.3 Tertiary Student Assistance \
Table 2.5.3 Administered expenses for Program 5.3\
Program 5.5 VET National Support \
Table 2.5.5 Administered expenses for Program 5.5 \
   \
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Annual administered expenses:\
Youth Allow ance Communication            700              -              -              -              - \
Special Appropriations:\
Social Security Act 1991\
Austudy     248,936              -              -              -              - \
Youth Allow ance  1,338,524              -              -              -              - \
Fares Allow ance            379              -              -              -              - \
Total program expenses 1,588,539             -              -              -              - \
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Annual administered expenses:\
National Centre for Vocational Education Research         513              -              -              -              - \
Australian Apprenticeship Centres  116,633              -              -              -              - \
Support for Australian Apprenticeships  602,910              -              -              -              - \
Australian Apprenticeship Workforce Skills \
Development  117,497 \
             -              -              -              - \
Australian Apprenticeship Access Program    38,009              -              -              -              - \
Workplace English Language and Literacy      9,319              -              -              -              - \
Language, Literacy and Numeracy    47,115              -              -              -              - \
Critical Skills Investment Fund    10,973              -              -              -              - \
National Foundation Skills Strategy         836              -              -              -              - \
Trade Apprentice Mentoring Initiative      4,708              -              -              -              - \
Support for Competency Based Progression      2,920              -              -              -              - \
The Right Trade for You      1,152              -              -              -              - \
More Help for Mature Age Workers    10,000              -              -              -              - \
National Workforce Development Fund      7,296              -              -              -              - \
Special Account Expenses: \
Education Investment Fund    16,190              -              -              -              - \
Total  pr ogr am   e xpe ns e s      986,071              -              -              -              - DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes and performance \'96 Outcome 5 \
115 \
Program 5.6 International Education Support \
Table 2.5.6 Administered expenses for Program 5.6\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Annual administered expenses:\
International Education and Training    23,383              -              -              -              - \
Assessment Subsidy for Overseas Trained \
Professionals         419              -              -              -              - \
Education Services for Overseas Student \
Assurance Fund      2,325              -              -              -              - \
Total  pr ogr am   e xpe ns e s           26,127              -              -              -              - DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
116 \
Section 3: Explanatory tables and budgeted financial \
statements \
Section 3 presents explanatory tables and budgeted financial statements which provide \
a comprehensive snapshot of agency finances for the 2012-13 budget year. It explains \
how budget plans are incorporated into the financial statements and provides further \
details of the reconciliation between  appropriations and program expenses, \
movements in administered funds, special accounts and government indigenous \
expenditure. \
3.1 EXPLANATORY TABLES\
3.1.1 Movement of administered funds between years \
Administered funds can be provided for a specified period, for example under annual \
Appropriation Acts. Funds not used in the specified period with the agreement of the \
Finance Minister may be moved to a future year. Table 3.1.1 shows the movement of \
administered funds approved between years.  \
Table 3.1.1: Movement of Administered Funds between years\
1\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Outcome 2: \
Program 2.4\
Trade Training Centres in Schools Program (32,522)   (45,369)   -              -              \
Outcome 3: \
Program 3.1\
Connecting People with Jobs (1,200)     1,200      -              -              -              \
Total Movement of\
Administered Funds (1,200)     (31,322)   (45,369)                 - -              \
1\
 Figures displayed as a negative (-) represent a decrease in funds and a positive reflect an increase in funds.  DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
117 \
3.1.2 Special Accounts \
Special Accounts provide a means to set aside and record amounts used for specified \
purposes. Special Accounts can be created by a Finance Minister\'92s Determination \
under the FMA Act or under separate enabling legislation. Table 3.1.2 shows the \
expected additions (receipts) and reductions (payments) for each account used by the \
department. \
Table 3.1.2: Estimates of Special Account Flows and Balances \
(A) = Administered\
(D) = Departmental\
Opening Closing\
balance Receipts Payments Adjustments balance\
2012-13 2012-13 2012-13 2012-13 2012-13\
2011-12 2011-12 2011-12 2011-12 2011-12\
Outcome $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Aboriginal Tutorial Assistance 2                   35 909          (5)              -                 939        \
 Superannuation Special        35 879          (5)              -                909       \
Account  - s20 FMA  Ac t \
Det 2003/05 (A)\
National Youth Affairs 2                   240 400        (240)          -                 400        \
Research Scheme Special        240 400        (240)          -                400       \
Account  - s20 FMA  Ac t \
Det 2006/45 (A)\
Department of Education, 5                - 5,202             -                -                 5,202     \
Employment and Workplace     - 5,202            -                -                5,202    \
Relations Services for Other\
Entities and Trust Moneys \
Special Account - s20 FMA\
Act Det 2008/14 (A)\
EIF Education Portfolio Special 5                       - -                                     -                 - -            \
Account  - s21 FMA  Ac t             107,331 - (107,331)   -                -            \
[National-builidng Funds Act\
2008]  (A)\
Australian International             - -             -                -                 -            \
Marketing of Education (D)            -     (8,000) 8,000                        - -            \
Total Special Accounts \
2012-13 Budget estimate 6,511     275        (245)          -                 6,541     \
Total Special Accounts\
2011-12 estimate actual 6,481    115,606 (115,576)   -                6,511    DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
118 \
3.1.3 Australian Government Indigenous Expenditure \
Table 3.1.3: Australian Government Indigenous Expenditure \
Outcome Other Total Program\
Bill Bill Special Total\
No. 1 No. 2 approp approp\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Department of Education, \
Employment and \
Workplace Relations\
Outcom e 1\
Administered 2012-13 72,358  -              -                  7 2 ,3 5 8 7 2 ,3 5 8 1.1\
Administered 2011-12 65,300  -            -               6 5 ,3 0 0 6 5 ,3 0 0\
Departmental  2012-13 13 ,781  -              -                  13 ,7 8 1 13 ,7 8 1\
Departmental 2011-12 13 ,423  -            -               13 ,4 2 3 13 ,4 2 3\
Total outcome  2012-13 86,139  -              -                  8 6 ,13 9 8 6 ,13 9\
Total outcome 2011-12 78,723  -            -               7 8 ,7 2 3 7 8 ,7 2 3\
Outcom e 2\
Administered 2012-13 39,479  -                           418,762 458,241 5 458,246\
Administered 2011-12 48,790  -                       449,623 498,413 5 498,418\
Departmental  2012-13 7,736  -              -                  7 ,7 3 6 -         7 ,7 3 6\
Departmental 2011-12 8,306  -            -               8 ,3 0 6 -      8 ,3 0 6\
Total outcome  2012-13 47,215  -                           418,762 465,977 5 465,982\
Total outcome 2011-12 57,096  -                       449,623 506,719 5 506,724\
Outcom e 3\
Administered 2012-13 172,576  -              -                  17 2 ,5 7 6 -         17 2 ,5 7 6 3 .2\
Administered 2011-12 157,713  -            -               15 7 ,7 13 -      15 7 ,7 13\
Departmental  2012-13 10 ,457  -              -                  10 ,4 5 7 -         10 ,4 5 7\
Departmental 2011-12 10 ,078  -            -               10 ,0 7 8 -      10 ,0 7 8\
Total outcome  2012-13 183,033  -              -                  18 3 ,0 3 3 -         18 3 ,0 3 3\
Total outcome 2011-12 167,791  -              -                  16 7 ,7 9 1 -         16 7 ,7 9 1\
Total administered  2012-13 284,413  -                           418,762 703,175 5               703,180\
Total administered 2011-12 271,803  -                       449,623 721,426 5           721,431\
Total departmental  2012-13 31,974  -              -                  3 1,9 7 4 -         3 1,9 7 4\
Total departmental 2011-12 31,807              - -                   31,807         - 31,807\
Total AGIE 2012-13 316,387  -                           418,762 735,149 5 735,154\
Total AGIE 2011-12 303,610              - 449,623 753,233 5 753,238\
Appropriations\
2.2, 2.3, \
2.12  DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
119 \
3.2 BUDGETED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\
3.2.2 Analysis of budgeted financial statements \
An analysis of the department\'92s budgeted financial statements, which consists of the \
budgeted departmental financial statements and administered schedules, is provided \
below. The 2011-12 estimated actual is used as the comparative year for the analysis \
although some comments on broader trends in the forward estimates are provided. \
Departmental financial statements \
Income Statement \
The department\'92s income statement reflects a deficit in 2011-12. This deficit is \
attributable to the depreciation expense for the year and an approved operating loss. \
Expenses for 2012-13 are estimated to be $715 million. This reflects a reduction of \
$171 million from the estimated actual expense for 2011-12 and is predominantly due \
to the impact of budget measures, the application of efficiency dividend, and the \
Administrative  Arrangements  Orders  (AAO)  that  took  effect  on  14  December  2011 \
which transferred the responsibility for Tertiary Education, Skills and International \
functions and policy to the Department of Industry, Innovation, Science, Research and \
Tertiary Education. \
Balance Sheet \
The budgeted net asset position of $135.5 million for 2012-13 represents a decrease of \
$39 million from the 2011-12 estimated actual. This is partially due to the AAO referred \
to above. The accumulated deficit apparent in the balance sheet represents the \
accounting treatment applicable to depreciation expense. \
The structure of the balance sheet reflects the nature of the organisation. Key assets are \
office fit-out (included in land and buildings), computer and office machines (included \
in infrastructure, plant and equipment), and computer software (included in \
intangibles). The most significant liability relates to employees and the leave \
provisions that are accrued as a result of their employment. DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
120 \
Administered Statements \
Income Statement \
Administered revenue for the 2012-13 budget year will be $179 million, a reduction of \
$503 million from the 2011-12 estimated actual. This relates to the transfer of both the \
HECS-HELP program and the Education and Investment Fund program to the \
Department of Industry, Innovation, Science, Research and Tertiary Education as \
referred to above. \
Administered expenses in 2012-13 are estimated to be $31.9 billion, a decrease of \
$4.7 billion from the 2011-12 estimated actual. Of this decrease $6.2 billion is \
attributable to AAO, which is offset by increases related to a number of budget \
measures and program parameters.  \
Balance Sheet \
The major variations apparent in the balance sheet are as a result of changes in \
payables, which reflect the timing of payments of personal benefits, grants and income \
support programs from year to year.   DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
121 \
3.2.3 Budgeted financial statements tables \
Table 3.2.1 Comprehensive Income Statement (Showing Net Cost of Services) \
(for the period ended 30 June) \
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
EXPENSES\
Employee benefits 564,468  491,509  507,800  499,124  498,386  \
Suppliers 234,471  134,045  111,198  111,983  119,432  \
Depreciation and amortisation 86,964    90,704    90,864    92,321    92,321    \
Total expenses 885,903  716,258  709,862  703,428  710,139  \
LESS: \
OWN- SOURCE INCOM E\
Own-source revenue\
Sale of goods and rendering of services 23,200    52,914    52,705    52,194    53,198    \
Total ow n-source revenue 23,200    52,914    52,705    52,194    53,198    \
Gains\
Other 17,460    1,700      1,700      1,700      1,700      \
Total gains 17,460    1,700      1,700      1,700      1,700      \
Total ow n-source income 40,660    54,614    54,405    53,894    54,898    \
Net cost of (contribution by)\
s e  r vice  s     (845,243) ( 6  6  1, 6  4  4  )     (649,534) (655,457)     (655,241)      \
Revenue from Government 740,365  571,026  564,593  557,213  563,042  \
Surplus (Deficit) attributable to\
  the   Aus tr alian  Gove r nm  e nt ( 10  4 , 8 7 8  )  (90,864) (90,618)  (92,321)  (92,199)  \
Total comprehensive income (loss) ( 10  4 , 8 7 8  )  (90,864) (90,618)  (92,321)  (92,199)  \
Total comprehensive income (loss)\
 attributable to the Australian \
Gove r nm e nt ( 10  4 , 8 7 8  )  (90,864) (90,618)  (92,321)  (92,199)  \
Note: Impact of Net Cash Apppropriation Arrangements\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Total Comprehensive Income \
(los s )  le s s   de pr e ciation/am  or tis ation\
expenses previously funded through\
revenue appropriations.      8  6 (  17 , 9 14  )                    -                          -                          12  2                 \
plus depreciation/amortisation expenses\
previously funded through revenue (86,964)  (90,704)  (90,864)  (92,321)  (92,321)  \
appropriations\
1\
Total Comprehensive Income \
(loss) - as per the Statement of\
Comprehensive Income (104,878)   (90,618)   (90,864)   (92,321)   (92,199)\
1 \
Fro m 2010-11, the Go vernment introduced net cash appro priatio n arrangements where Bill 1 revenue appro priatio ns for the \
depreciatio n/amo rtisatio n expenses of FM A Act agencies were replaced with a separate capital budget (the Departmental Capital \
Budget, or DCB) pro vided thro ugh Bill 1 equity appropriations. For info rmatio n regarding DCBs, please refer to Table 3.2.5 \
Departmental Capital Budget Statement.\
Prepared o n Australian Accounting Standards basisDEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
122 \
Table 3.2.2: Budgeted Departmental Balance Sheet (as at 30 June) \
*'Equity' is the residual interest in assets after deduction of liabilities.\
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis. \
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
ASSETS\
Financial assets\
Cash and cash equivalents 3,990      3,990      3,990      3,990      3,990      \
Trade and other receivables 142,656  141,065  141,231  141,594  141,741  \
Other financial assets 476         476         476         476         476         \
Total financial assets  145,531 147,122  145,697  146,060  146,207  \
Non-financial assets\
Land and buildings 94,604    78,665    61,110    46,858    32,631    \
Property, plant and equipment 49,939    32,101    9,623      5,045      1,463      \
Intangibles 128,507  125,766  122,271  98,330    74,479    \
Other non-financial assets 28,482    28,482    28,482    28,482    28,482    \
Total non-financial assets  265,014 301,532  221,486  178,715  137,055  \
Total assets 448,654  410,545  367,183  324,775  283,262  \
LIABILITIES\
Payables\
Suppliers 39,086    39,086    39,086    39,086    39,086    \
Other payables 52,367    52,367    52,367    52,367    52,367    \
Total payables    91,453 91,453    91,453    91,453    91,453    \
Provisions\
Employee provisions 174,386  175,281  175,447  175,811  175,958  \
Other provisions 8,310      8,310      8,310      8,310      8,310      \
Tota  l   pr ovi si ons  183,591 182,696  183,757  184,121  184,268  \
Total liabilities 274,149  275,044  275,210  275,574  275,721  \
Net assets 174,505  135,501  91,973    49,201    7,541      \
EQUIT Y*\
Parent entity interest\
Contributed equity 341,084  392,698  440,034  489,583  540,122  \
Reserves 47,331    47,331    47,331    47,331    47,331    \
Retained surplus\
(accumulated deficit) (213,910) (304,528) (395,392) (487,713) (579,912)\
Total parent entity interest  135,501 174,505  91,973    49,201    7,541      \
Total Equity 174,505  135,501  91,973    49,201    7,541        DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
123 \
Table 3.2.3: Departmental Statement of Changes in Equity \'97 summary of \
movement (Budget year 2012-13)\
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.\
Retained Asset Other Contributed Total\
earnings revaluation reserves equity/ equity\
reserve capital\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Opening balance as at 1 July 2012\
Balance carried forw ard from\
previous period (213,910)  47,331     -           341,084   174,505   \
Adjustment for changes in\
accounting policies -               -               -           -               -               \
Adjusted opening balance  47,331 (213,910)     -           341,084   174,505   \
Comprehensive income\
Surplus (deficit) for the period (90,618)                            - -                  -                            (90,618)\
Total comprehensive income    (90,618)                              - -                      -                                 (90,618)\
of w hich:\
Attributable to the Australian Government -               -               -           -               -               \
Attributable to non-controlling interest* -               -               -           -               -               \
Transactions with owners\
Distributions to owners\
Returns on capital:\
Dividends -               -               -           -               -               \
Returns of capital:\
Other  -               -               -           -               -               \
Contributions by owners\
Equity Injection\
Equity Injection - Appropriation -               -               -           6,520       6,520       \
Departmental Capital Budget (DCBs) -               -               -           45,094     45,094     \
Sub-total transactions with owners               - -               -                51,614 51,614     \
Transfers betw een equity\
components -               -               -           -               -               \
Estimated closing balance\
as at 30 June 2013 (304,528)  47,331     -           392,698   135,501   \
Less: non-controlling interests -               -               -           -               -               \
Closing balance attributable to the \
Australian Government (304,528)  47,331     -           392,698   135,501   DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
124 \
Table 3.2.4: Budgeted Departmental Statement of Cash Flows \
(for the period ended 30 June)\
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis. \
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
OPERATING ACTIVITIES\
Cas h  r e ce ive d\
Appropriations 767,380   572,576   564,390   556,691   562,895   \
Sale of goods and rendering of services 23,200     52,914     52,705     52,194     53,198     \
Total cash received   625,490 790,580   617,095   608,885   616,093   \
Cash used\
Employees 566,928   493,280   510,296   498,601   498,239   \
Suppliers 215,703   129,638   106,799   110,283   117,732   \
Total cash used   622,918 782,631   617,095   608,884   615,971   \
Net cash from (used by)\
operating activities 7,949       2,572       -              1              122          \
INVESTING ACTIVITIES\
Cas h  r e ce ive d\
Other -              -              -              -              -              \
Total cash received              - -              -              -              -              \
Cash used\
Purchase of property, plant \
and equipment 88,996     54,186     47,336     49,550     50,661     \
Total cash used     54,186 88,996     47,336     49,550     50,661     \
Net cash from (used by)  \
investing activities (88,996)   (54,186)   (47,336)   (49,550)   (50,661)   \
FINANCING ACTIVITIES\
Cas h  r e ce ive d\
Contributed equity 81,047     51,614     47,336     49,549     50,539     \
Total cash received     51,614 81,047     47,336     49,549     50,539     \
Cash used\
Other -              -              -              -              -              \
Total cash used              - -              -              -              -              \
Net cash from (used by)  \
financing activities 81,047     51,614     47,336     49,549     50,539     \
Ne  t  incr e  as e   (de cr e as e )\
in cash held              - -              -              -              -              \
Cash and cash equivalents at the\
beginning of the reporting period 3,990       3,990       3,990       3,990       3,990       \
Effect of exchange rate movements \
on cash and cash equivalents at \
the beginning of reporting period -              -              -              -              -              \
Cash and cash equivalents at the \
end of the reporting period 3,990       3,990       3,990       3,990       3,990         DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
125 \
Table 3.2.5: Departmental Capital Budget Statement \
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.\
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
NEW CAPITAL APPROPRIATIONS\
Capital budget - Bill 1 (DCB) 68,915  45,094  45,635  47,733   48,442     \
Equity injections - Bill 2 12,132  6,520    1,701    1,816     2,097       \
Departmental capital - special\
appropriation (Dept only)\
*\
            - -           -           -             -              \
Total new capital appropriations 81,047  51,614  47,336  49,549   50,539     \
Provided for:\
Purchase of non-financial assets 81,047  51,614  47,336  49,549   50,539     \
Other Items -            -           -           -             -              \
Total Items 81,047  51,614  47,336  49,549   50,539     \
PURCHASE OF NON- FINANCIAL\
ASSETS\
Funded by capital appropriations \
1\
    6,520 12,132      1,701      1,816      2,097       \
Funded by capital appropriation - DCB \
2\
    45,094 73,914    45,635    47,733    48,442     \
Funded internally from\
departmental resources \
3\
      2,572 2,950      -             1             122          \
TOTAL 88,996  54,186  47,336  49,550   50,661     \
RECONCILIATION OF CASH\
USED TO ACQUIRE ASSETS\
TO  ASSET  M OV EM ENT  TABLE\
Total purchases 88,996  54,186  47,336  49,550   50,661     \
less additions by finance lease -            -           -           -             -              \
less additions by creditors / borrow ings -            -           -           -             -              \
plus borrow ing / finance costs -            -           -           -             -              \
plus Annual finance lease costs -            -           -           -             -              \
less Gifted assets  -            -           -           -             -              \
less s32  /  restructuring  -            -           -           -             -              \
Total cash used to\
acquire assets 88,996  54,186  47,336  49,550   50,661     \
1\
 Includes both current and prior Bill 2/4/6 appropriations and special capital appropriations\
2\
 Does not include annual finance lease costs.  Include purchase from current and previous\
years' Departmental Capital Budgets (DCBs).\
3\
 Includes the follow ing sources of funding:\
   - current and prior year Bill 1/3/5 appropriations (excluding amounts from the DCB).\
   - internally developed assets\
   - s31 relevant agency receipts (for FMA agencies only)DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
126 \
Table 3.2.6: Statement of Asset Movements (2012-13) \
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.\
Land Buildings Other property, Computer Total\
plant and softw are and\
equipment intangibles\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
As at 1 July 2012\
Gross book value 1,123 120,598  169,181         310,544     601,446     \
Accumulated depreciation/amortisation \
and impairment -        (27,117)  (119,242)        (182,037)   (328,396)    \
Opening net book balance 1,123   93,481      49,939             128,507       273,050     \
CAPITAL ASSET ADDITIONS\
Estimated expenditure on\
new or replacement assets\
By purchase - appropriation equity \
1\
        - -             -                     -                 -                 \
By purchase - appropriation ordinary\
annual services \
2\
        10,626 -    6,945             36,615       54,186       \
By purchase - other -        -             -                     -                 -                 \
By finance lease -        -             -                     -                 -                 \
Total additions -          10,626      6,945               36,615         54,186       \
Other movements\
Assets held for sale or in a disposal \
group held for sale -        -             -                     -                 -                 \
Depreciation/amortisation expense -        (26,565)  (24,783)          (39,356)     (90,704)      \
Disposals \
3\
From disposal of entities or operations\
(including restructuring) -        -             -                     -                 -                 \
Other -        -             -                     -                 -                 \
Total other movements -          (26,565)    (24,783)            (39,356)       (90,704)      \
As at 30 June 2013\
Gross book value 1,123 131,224  176,126         347,159     655,632     \
Accumulated depreciation/amortisation\
and impairment -        (53,682)  (144,025)        (221,393)   (419,100)    \
Closing net book balance 1,123   77,542      32,101             125,766       236,532     \
1\
 "Appropriation equity" refers to equity injections or Administered Assets and Liabilities appropriations provided through\
Appropriation Bill (No.2) 2012-13, including CDABs.\
2\
 "Appropriation ordinary annual services" refers to funding provided through Appropriation Bill (No.1) 2012-13 for \
depreciation / amortisation expenses, DCBs or other operational expenses.\
3\
 Net proceeds may be returned to the OPA.DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
127 \
Table 3.2.7: Schedule of Budgeted Income and Expenses Administered on behalf \
of Government (for the period ended 30 June) \
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.\
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
EXPENSES A DM INIST ERED ON\
BEHALF OF GOV ERNM ENT\
Suppliers 2,797,969     2,572,845      2,734,105    2,676,957     2,647,662    \
Subsidies 719,603        226,738         228,008       229,444        230,907       \
Personal benefits 20,505,961   19,732,459    20,845,886  20,512,755   21,456,262  \
Grants 11,871,656   9,384,484      9,827,454    10,509,834   11,490,327  \
Write-dow n and impairment of assets 354,328        31,974           32,974         25,095          26,990         \
Other expenses 355,542        -                    -                   -                    -                   \
Total  e xpe ns e s   adm  inis te r e d\
on behalf of Government   31,948,500 36,605,059    33,668,427  33,954,085   35,852,148  \
LESS:\
OWN-SOURCE INCOME\
Own-source revenue\
Taxation revenue\
Other taxes 152,423        152,423         152,423       152,423        152,423       \
Total taxation revenue        152,423 152,423         152,423       152,423        152,423       \
Non-taxation revenue\
Interest 389,536        2,908             2,601           2,272            1,860           \
Other revenue 140,453        23,735           22,225         22,225          22,223         \
Total non-taxation revenue        26,643 529,989           24,826         24,497          24,083         \
Total own-source revenues\
administered on behalf of \
Government 682,412        179,066         177,249       176,920        176,506       \
Net Cost of (contribution by)\
s e  r vice  s\
Surplus (Deficit) (31,769,434) (35,922,647)  (33,491,178) (33,777,165)  (35,675,642)\
OTHER COM PREHENSIV E INCOM E\
Changes in asset revaluation surplus -                   -                    -                   -                    -                   \
Total other comprehensive income                   - -                    -                   -                    -                   \
Total comprehensive income (loss) (31,769,434) (35,922,647)  (33,491,178) (33,777,165)  (35,675,642)DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
128 \
Table 3.2.8: Schedule of Budgeted Assets and Liabilities Administered on behalf \
of Government (as at 30 June) \
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.\
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
ASSETS\
Financial assets\
Cash and cash equivalents 200             200             200             200             200             \
Trade and other receivables 897,698      833,770      749,245      726,435      759,843      \
Other investments 21,812        21,812        21,812        21,812        21,812        \
Total financial assets      855,782 919,710      771,257      748,447      781,855      \
Non-financial  as s e ts\
Inventories 1                 1                 1                 1                 1                 \
Other non-financial assets 3,917          3,626          3,626          3,657          3,690          \
Total non-financial assets          3,627 3,918          3,627          3,658          3,691          \
Total  as s e ts   adm  inis te r e d \
on behalf of Government 923,628      859,409      774,884      752,105      785,546      \
LIABILITIES\
Payables\
Suppliers 97,599        97,599        97,599        97,599        97,599        \
Subsidies 21,756        21,756        21,756        21,756        21,756        \
Personal benefits 990,713      1,106,003   1,149,696   1,179,866   1,289,886   \
Grants 59,795        59,795        59,795        59,795        59,795        \
Other payables 2,262,210   2,287,980   2,299,019   2,320,072   2,305,336   \
Total payables   3,573,133 3,432,073   3,627,865   3,679,088   3,774,372   \
Interest bearing liabilities \
Loans 57,409        57,409        57,409        57,409        57,409        \
Tota l   i nter est  bea r i ng  l i  a bi l i ti es        57,409 57,409        57,409        57,409        57,409        \
Total liabilities administered\
on behalf of Government   3,630,542 3,489,482   3,685,274   3,736,497   3,831,781   \
Ne t  as s e ts /(liabilities) (2,771,133) (2,565,854) (2,910,390) (2,984,392)  (3,046,235)  DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
129 \
Table 3.2.9: Schedule of Budgeted Administered Cash Flows \
(for the period ended 30 June)  \
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.\
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
OPERATING ACTIVITIES\
Cash received\
Interest 465,596        2,233            2,178            2,067           1,978            \
Taxes 152,423        152,423        152,423        152,423       152,423        \
Other 333,936        202,742        204,186        203,962       204,765        \
Total cash received        357,398 951,955        358,787        358,452       359,166        \
Cas h  us e d\
Grant 11,928,454   9,384,484     9,827,454     10,509,834  11,490,327   \
Subsidies paid 719,603        226,738        228,008        229,444       230,907        \
Personal benefits 20,368,153   19,636,039   20,794,361   20,445,849  21,363,468   \
Suppliers 2,837,070     2,671,389     2,833,766     2,778,916    2,752,105     \
Total cash used   31,918,650 35,853,280   33,683,589   33,964,043  35,836,807   \
Net cash from (used by) \
operating activities (31,561,252) (34,901,325)  (33,324,802) (33,605,591) (35,477,641)\
INVESTING ACTIVITIES\
Cash received\
Investments associated w ith loan programs 1,196,103     4,744            5,744            5,744           7,722            \
Total cash received     4,744 1,196,103            5,744            5,744           7,722            \
Cas h  us e d\
Investments associated w ith loan programs 1,793,749     -                    -                   -                   -                   \
Total cash used     - 1,793,749                    -                   -                   -                   \
Net cash from (used by) \
investing activities (597,646)      4,744            5,744            5,744           7,722            \
Net increase (decrease) in\
 cash held (31,556,508) (35,498,971)  (33,319,058) (33,599,847) (35,469,919)\
Cas h  and  cas h  e quivale nts   at\
beginning of reporting period 200               200               200               200              200               \
Cash from Official Public Account for:\
- Appropriations 37,486,150   31,881,858   33,646,133   33,927,428  35,801,507   \
Cash to Official Public Account for:\
- Appropriations (1,987,179)   (325,350)       (327,075)      (327,581)      (331,588)      \
Cas h  and  cas h  e quivale nts   at  e nd\
of reporting period 200               200               200               200              200               DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
130 \
3.2.4 Notes to the financial statements \
Accounting Policy \
The budgeted financial statements have  been prepared in accordance with the \
requirements of the Finance Minister\'92s Orders issued by the Minister for Finance and \
Deregulation. \
The statements have been prepared: \
\'95 on an accrual accounting basis \
\'95 in compliance with Australian Accounting Standards and Australian Equivalents to \
International Financial Reporting Standards (AEIFRS) and other authoritative \
pronouncements of the Australian Accounting Standards Board and the Consensus \
Views of the Urgent Issues Group \
\'95 having regard to Statements of Accounting Concepts. \
Departmental appropriation revenue  \
Revenue from Government represents the purchase of outputs from the department by \
the Government. The changes reflected in the ordinary annual appropriations are a \
result of those new measures and variations that are explained in Section 1: Agency \
overview and resources.  \
Departmental own source revenue \
Revenue from the sale of goods and services is recognised upon the delivery of the \
goods or services to the customers. \
Departmental gains \
Services received free of charge are recognised as gains when a fair value can be \
reliably determined and the services would have been purchased if they had not been \
donated. Use of those resources is recognised as an expense. \
Departmental expenses \'96 employee benefits \
This item represents payments made and net increases or decreases in entitlements \
owed to employees for their services provided in the financial year. \
Departmental expenses \'96 suppliers  \
This item represents payments to suppliers for goods and services. It includes \
contracted payments made to Centrelink for services received. DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
131 \
Departmental expenses \'96 depreciation and amortisation \
Property, plant and equipment assets are written-off to their estimated residual value \
over their estimated useful lives to the department using the straight-line method of \
depreciation. Forward estimates of depreciation expense are made using forecasts of \
net capital acquisitions over the forward years. \
Departmental assets \'96 financial assets \'96 receivables  \
Receivables represent amounts owing to the department for goods and services it has \
provided to external parties, cash reserves held in the Official Public Account which \
are recorded as receivable and prepayments.  \
Departmental assets \'96 non-financial assets \
These items represent future economic benefits that the department will consume in \
producing outputs. Following initial recognition at cost, Land and Buildings, \
Infrastructure, Plant and Equipment are carried at fair value less accumulated \
depreciation. Valuations are conducted with  sufficient frequency to ensure that the \
carrying amount does not differ materially from the assets\'92 fair values at reporting \
date. \
Computer software, disclosed in the Departmental Balance Sheet  as Intangibles, are \
expensed in the year of acquisition except for purchases of internally developed \
software costing more than the appropriate threshold which are capitalised at cost. \
Departmental liabilities \'96 provisions \'96 employees \
Provision has been made for the department\'92s liability for employee entitlements \
arising from services rendered by employees to balance date. This liability \
encompasses wages and salaries that are yet to be paid, annual and long service leave. \
No provision is made for sick leave. \
Employee entitlements payable are measured as the present value of the estimated \
future cash outflows to be made in respect of services provided by employees up to the \
reporting date. Liabilities expected to be settled within 12 months are measured at the \
nominal amount.  \
Departmental liabilities \'96 payables \'96 suppliers \
Suppliers and other payables are recognised at amortised cost. Liabilities are \
recognised to the extent that the goods or services have been received (and irrespective \
of having been invoiced). \
Administered revenue \'96 taxation revenue \
Black Coal Mining Industry Levy: Since 1993, employers have been required to pay a \
levy of payroll into a central fund managed by the Coal Mining Industry (Long Service \
Leave) Corporation. DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
132 \
Administered revenue \'96 interest \
This amount comprises of the fair value accounting treatment of HECS receivable. It \
consists of indexation on HECS receivable from student loans. \
Administered revenue \'96 Other Sources of non Taxation Revenue \
This amount comprises of the Education  Investment Fund Special account funds \
received by the department and the revenue received from HECS-HELP loan fees. \
Administered expenses \'96 grants \
The Grants expenses include funding provided to the schools, vocational education \
and training and higher education (multi-jurisdictional) sectors. \
Administered expenses \'96 subsidies \
Subsidies reflect the amount of funding estimated to be provided to employers under \
the Vocational Education and Training program and payments under the Indigenous \
Employment Program and the Coal Mining Industry (Long Service Leave) Payroll Levy Act \
1992. \
Administered expenses \'96 personal benefits \
These include payments made in respect of the Child Care Tax Rebate, Child Care \
Benefit, School Students Assistance, General Employee Entitlements and Redundancy \
Scheme payments, Parenting Payments, Newstart Allowance, Pensioner Education \
Supplement, Partner Allowance, Widow Allowance, Mature Age Allowance, Ex Gratia \
Payment, Utilities Allowance, Asbestos, Act of Grace and Modified Compliance \
Framework.  \
Administered expenses \'96 suppliers \
These comprise a range of administered programs the most significant being Job \
Services Australia, Disability Employment Services, Indigenous Employment, New \
Apprenticeship Centres, Workforce Skills Development, New Apprenticeship Access \
Program and the Language, Literacy and Numeracy Program. \
Administered expenses \'96 write down and impairment of assets \
This relates to loans provided to students under HELP and reflects those amounts not \
expected to be repaid, partially offset by the amounts owed by students increasing due \
to the application of CPI. \
Administered expenses \'96 finance costs \
This component reflects the deferral costs on loans provided to students under HELP. \
Deferral costs arise due to the income contingent nature of the repayment arrangement \
and is the cost resulting from payments being received over an extended period. DEEWR Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
133 \
Administered assets \'96 financial assets \'96 receivables \
The main component of the receivables is  loans provided to students under HECSHELP. The value of these loans are based on a \'91fair value\'92 which accounts for an \
estimate of those amounts that are not expected  to  be  repaid  as  well  as  the  cost  of \
repayments being deferred due to the income contingent nature of the repayment \
arrangements. The other significant component is receivables relating to personal \
benefit overpayments. \
Administered liabilities \
This primarily comprises a grants provision for the Government share of unfunded \
superannuation liability in respect of university employees. 135 \
AUSTRALIAN CURRICULUM,\
ASSESSMENT AND REPORTING \
AUTHORITY\
(positional only)137 \
AUSTRALIAN CURRICULUM, ASSESSMENT AND \
REPORTING AUTHORITY\
Section 1: Agency overview and resources ........................................................... 139\
1.1 Strategic Direction Statement ....................................................................... 139\
1.2 Agency Resource Statement ........................................................................ 141\
1.3 Budget Measures .......................................................................................... 142 \
Section 2: Outcomes and planned performance ................................................... 143\
2.1 Outcomes and performance information ...................................................... 143\
Section 3: Explanatory tables and budgeted financial statements ..................... 151\
3.1 Explanatory tables ........................................................................................ 151 \
3.2 Budgeted Financial Statements .................................................................... 152 ACARA Budget Statements \'96 Overview & resources \
139 \
AUSTRALIAN CURRICULUM, ASSESSMENT AND \
REPORTING AUTHORITY\
Section 1: Agency overview and resources \
1.1 STRATEGIC DIRECTION STATEMENT\
The Australian Curriculum, Assessment and Reporting Authority (ACARA) was \
established under the  Australian Curriculum, Assessment and Reporting Authority Act \
2008  (ACARA  Act)  of  the  Parliament  of the Commonwealth of Australia. The \
legislation was assented to on 8th December, 2008.\
ACARA is tasked to execute the policy directions that are determined by the Standing \
Council on School Education and Early  Childhood (SCSEEC) regarding curriculum, \
assessment, data collection and reporting at a national level.  \
ACARA is responsible for delivering:\
\'95 An Australian Curriculum from Foundation\
14\
 to Year 12 in specified learning areas.\
\'95 A national assessment program aligned to the national curriculum that measures \
students\'92 progress.\
\'95 A national data collection and reporting program that supports:\
\'96 analysis, evaluation, research and resource allocation; and \
\'96 accountability and reporting on schools and broader national achievement.\
ACARA\'92s work in developing the Australian Curriculum is guided by the 2008 \
Melbourne Declaration on Educational Goals for Young Australians. The Melbourne \
Declaration commits \'91to supporting all young Australians to become successful \
learners, confident and creative individuals, and active and informed citizens\'92, and to \
promoting equity and excellence in education. The Australian Curriculum will \'91equip \
all young Australians with the essential skills, knowledge and capabilities to thrive \
and compete in a globalised world and information rich workplaces of the current \
century.\'92 The curriculum will be accessible to all young Australians, regardless of their \
social or economic background or the school they attend.\
                                                          \
14\
The term Foundation Year is used as a nationally consistent term for the year of schooling prior to Year 1 \
for the purpose of the Australian Curriculum. It does  not replace the equivalent terms used in states and \
territories \'96 Kindergarten (NSW/ACT), Prep (QLD/VIC/TAS), Pre-primary (WA), Reception (SA) and \
Transition (NT).ACARA Budget Statements \'96 Overview & resources \
140 \
The Australian Curriculum for English, mathematics, science and history for \
Foundation to Year 10 was published in December 2010. Following a validation \
process, the  Achievement Standards for English, mathematics, science and history were \
revised and endorsed in October 2011. Development continues in relation to the senior \
secondary curriculum in these learning areas, with publication planned for December \
2012. \
A second phase of curriculum development relates to the Australian Curriculum for \
geography, languages and the arts. Geography F-12 curriculum writing began in \
February 2011 and consultation on the draft curriculum took place between October \
2011 and February 2012. The shape papers for the arts and languages were released in \
August and November 2011 respectively, and writing of detailed curriculum for these \
two areas commenced soon after.  \
The third phase of Australian Curriculum development applies to Technologies, \
Health and Physical Education, Economics and Business and Civics and Citizenship. \
The draft Shape of the Australian Curriculum papers for Technologies and Health and \
Physical Education were released for public consultation in March 2012, with \
consultation on shape papers for Economics and Business and Civics and Citizenship \
to occur in mid-2012. ACARA is working towards completion of the F-10 curriculum, \
across all learning areas, by the end of 2013. \
The National Assessment Program (NAP) encompasses a suite of assessments \
endorsed by SCSEEC including the National Assessment Program \'96 Literacy and \
Numeracy (NAPLAN) and three-yearly sample assessments in Science Literacy, Civics \
and Citizenship, and ICT Literacy. ACARA took up responsibility for managing the \
development and overseeing the delivery of tests for NAPLAN and NAP in 2010 along \
with associated reporting requirements. ACARA is responsible for collecting, \
managing, analysing, evaluating and reporting statistical and related information \
about educational outcomes. This includes the development and publication of \
national performance measures, performance standards and national definitions.  \
ACARA publishes a National Report on Schooling in Australia for each calendar year and \
will publish the report for 2010 in the first half of 2012 and the report for 2011 in early \
2013. This report informs the Australian public on progress against the national goals \
for schooling and agreed national performance measures.  \
ACARA is also responsible for collecting  data from schools for the purposes of \
accountability and reporting, research and analysis, and resource allocation. \
Information on individual schools is published on the My School website, which was \
launched in early 2010 and is updated annually. The third release of  My School\
occurred in February 2012 and provided an additional year of information for all \
schools, with four years of student assessment data now available. The 2012 release of \
My School also included enhanced representations of student gain and more detailed \
information on student participation in vocational education and training in schools. ACARA Budget Statements \'96 Overview & resources \
141 \
1.2 AGENCY RESOURCE STATEMENT\
Table 1.1 shows the total resources from all sources. The table summarises how \
resources will be applied by outcome and by administered and departmental \
classification. \
Table 1.1: Australian Curriculum, Assessment and Reporting Authority Resource \
Statement \'97 Budget Estimates for 2012-13 as at Budget May 2012 \
Estima te Proposed To ta l Ac tual\
of prio r\
+\
a t Budget\
=\
estima te available\
year amounts app rop ria tion\
 availab le  in\
2 0 12 - 13 2 0 12 - 13 2 0 12 - 13 2 0 11- 12\
Source $ '000 $ '000 $'000 $ '000\
O p e n in g   b a la n c e / R e se rve s   a t   b a n k\
REVENUE FROM GOVERNMENT\
T o t a  l  o rd in a  ry   a  n n u a  l  se  rv ic  e  s                                 - -                        -                        -                             \
T o t a  l  o t h e  r  se  rv ic  e  s   -                  -               -               -                  \
T o t a  l  a  n n u a  l  a  p p ro p ria  t io n s  -                  -               -               -                  \
P  a  yme  n  t s   f ro  m  re  la  t  e  d   e  n  t it ie  s\
3\
Amoun ts  from  the po rtfo lio  departmen t                  -           15 ,4 5 0 15 , 4 5 0                             -\
Amounts  from o the r agenc ies                  - -               -               -                  \
T o t a  l  -                  15 ,4 5 0        15 , 4 5 0    -                  \
S  p e  c  ia  l  A c  c  o u n t s  ( p o rt f o lio   a g e n c y )\
Name  o f Spec ia l Accoun t\
4\
                             - -                        -                        -                             \
T o t a  l  S  p e  c  ia  l  A c  c  o u n t   -                  -               -               -                  \
T o t a  l  f u n d s   f ro m  G  o ve  rn me  n t  -                  15 ,4 5 0        15 , 4 5 0    -                  \
F  U N D S   F  R O  M   O  T  H ER   S  O  U R C ES\
In te re st -                             2 5 0                 2 5 0                 -                             \
Royalties -                             -                        -                        -                             \
Sa le  of goods and se rvices  -                             -                        -                        -                             \
Other -                             15 ,4 5 0           15 ,4 5 0           -                             \
T o t a  l  -                  15 ,7 0 0        15 , 7 0 0    -                  \
T o t a  l  n e  t   re  so u rc  in g   f o r  a  g e  n c  y  -                  3 1,15 0          3 1, 15 0     -                  \
All  figu res are GST exc lusive\
CRF  -  Consolidated  Revenue  Fund\
ACARA  is no t d irec tly app rop riated  as  it  is a  CAC Ac t body.   Approp ria tions a re made   to  DEEWR \
wh ich a re   then  pa id   to  ACARA and  are conside red   'departmen ta l'  fo r a ll pu rposes. \
3\
 Fund ing  provided  by a Gove rnment body  tha t  is no t spec ified with in   the  annual approp riation  bills as a\
paymen t  to   the CAC Ac t body  (fo r example , a  fee   fo r se rvice  from an  FMA Ac t agency pa id   to  a CAC Ac t \
body wou ld appear he re  and  may be expla ined with in   th is  foo tnote, as would a  paymen t  from a  th ird\
agency's spec ia l app ropria tion ).\
4\
 A CAC Ac t body may  rece ive paymen t  from a  spec ia l accoun t he ld  by an  FMA Ac t agency. The CAC Ac t\
body does no t ho ld   the  spec ia l accoun t  itse lf and  therefore does not have  a  ba lance  ca rried   fo rward  from\
ea rlie r years.ACARA Budget Statements \'96 Overview & resources \
142 \
1.3 BUDGET MEASURES\
ACARA does not have any new measures since the 2011-12 Budget. For this reason \
Table 1.2 is not presented ACARA Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
143 \
Section 2: Outcomes and planned performance \
2.1 OUTCOMES AND PERFORMANCE INFORMATION\
Government outcomes are the intended results, impacts or consequences of actions by \
the Government on the Australian community. Commonwealth programs are the \
primary vehicle by which government agencies achieve the intended results of their \
outcome statements. Agencies are required to identify the programs which contribute \
to Government outcomes over the Budget and forward years. \
Each outcome is described below together with its related programs, specifying the \
performance indicators and targets used to assess and monitor the performance of the \
Australian Curriculum, Assessment and Reporting Authority in achieving \
Government outcomes. \
Outcome 1: Improved quality and consistency of school education in Australia \
through national curriculum, national assessment, data collection and \
performance reporting system. \
Outcome 1 Strategy \
ACARA will continue to work collaboratively with a wide range of stakeholders \
including teachers, principals, government, state and territory education authorities, \
professional education associations, business/industry, community groups and the \
broader public. \
Curriculum \
\'95 To establish the F-12 Australian Curriculum including development of content, \
content elaborations, achievement standards and annotated work samples for all \
learning areas listed in the  Melbourne Declaration on Educational Goals for Young \
Australians. \
\'95 To ensure that the Australian Curriculum caters for and engages all learners, \
including students with disabilities and those for whom English is an additional \
language/dialect. \
\'95 To ensure that the Australian Curriculum gives due emphasis to general \
capabilities and to the cross-curricular dimensions of Aboriginal and Torres Strait \
Islander histories and cultures, Asia and Australia\'92s engagement with Asia and \
sustainability. \
\'95 To develop and implement a rigorous approach to benchmarking the Australian \
Curriculum with curricula of leading nations. ACARA Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
144 \
\'95 To enhance public understanding and awareness of the Australian Curriculum. \
Assessment and reporting \
\'95 To align national assessments with the Australian Curriculum and ensure that they \
validly, reliably and fairly capture achievement across a wide range of learning \
areas and valued outcomes, particularly those capabilities of special importance in \
the 21st century. \
\'95 To develop with key stakeholders and strategic partners options for national \
consistency in senior secondary assessment and certification. \
\'95 To ensure that national assessments enable accurate monitoring of student and \
school performance and progress while promoting good pedagogical practices. \
\'95 To provide a richer array of information on Australian schools and on student \
achievement, progress and participation. \
\'95 To extend and improve ways of enabling schools to benchmark their performance \
against other schools with similar characteristics and similar student backgrounds \
and academic starting points. \
\'95 To further develop national key performance measures, including measures of \
student engagement and stakeholder satisfaction. \
Supporting improvement \
\'95 To establish productive partnerships with jurisdictions, agencies and professional \
associations to provide tools and resources to support schools, teachers and the \
public in understanding, implementing and interacting with the Australian \
Curriculum. \
\'95 To coordinate a cooperative, national approach to supporting teachers in using \
assessments and standards to obtain feedback to improve teaching and learning. \
\'95 To provide analyses and reports on performance to facilitate more informed \
curriculum and teaching decision-making. \
Building capacity \
\'95 To align governance and operations within ACARA and create a high performance \
organisation that can fully meet client expectations. \
\'95 To strengthen connections between ACARA\'92s stakeholders and strategic partners. \
\'95 To leverage international knowledge and practice in curriculum, assessment and \
reporting to ensure leading edge practice.ACARA Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
145 \
\'95 To work with the Australian Institute  for Teaching and School Leadership, \
Education Services Australia and jurisdictions in developing and delivering \
professional learning and training in curriculum and assessment. \
Outcome Expense and Resource Statement \
Table 2.1 provides an overview of the total expenses for Outcome 1 by program. \
Table 2.1: Budgeted Expenses and Resources for Outcome 1 \
2011-12 2012-13\
Estimated Estimated\
actual expenses\
expenses\
$'000 $'000\
Program 1.1: National Curriculum\
Revenue from Government\
Payment from related entities 5,462 6,126\
Revenues from other independent sources 6,741 6,377\
Total for Program 1.1 12,203 12,503\
Program 1.2: National Data Collection and Reporting\
Revenue from Government\
Payment from related entities 1,928 3,330\
Revenues from other independent sources 3,076 3,330\
Total for Program 1.2 5,004 6,660\
Pr ogr am   1.3:  National  As s e s s m  e nt\
Revenue from Government\
Payment from related entities 5,385 5,994\
Revenues from other independent sources 6,659 5,993\
Total for Program 1.3 12,044 11,987\
Outcome 1 Totals by resource type\
Revenue from Government\
Payment from related entities 12,775 15,450\
Revenues from other independent sources 16,476 15,700\
Total  e xpe ns e s   for   Outcom  e   1  29,251  31,150\
2011-12 2012-13\
Average Staffing Level (number) 96                  97                  \
Outcome 1: Imporved quality and consistency of school \
education in Australia through a national curriculum, \
national  as s e s s m  e nt,  data  colle ction  and  pe r for m  ance  \
reporting system.ACARA Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
146 \
Contributions to Outcome 1 \
Program 1.1: National Curriculum \
Program 1.1 objectives \
\'95 To establish the F-12 Australian Curriculum including development of content, \
content elaborations, achievement standards and annotated work samples for all \
learning areas listed in the Melbourne Declaration on Educational Goals for Young \
Australians.\
\'95 To ensure that the Australian Curriculum caters for and engages all learners, \
including students with disabilities and those for whom English is an additional \
language/dialect. \
\'95 To ensure that the Australian Curriculum gives due emphasis to general \
capabilities and to the cross-curricular dimensions of Indigenous history and \
culture, Asia and sustainability. \
\'95 To develop and implement a rigorous approach to benchmarking the Australian \
Curriculum with curricula of leading nations. \
\'95 To enhance public understanding and awareness of the Australian Curriculum. \
Program 1.1 expenses \
ACARA has not identified any significant trends, changes or variances in program \
expenses over the forward years.  \
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
1.1.1 - National Curriculum\
Annual departmental expenses:\
Payment from related entities 5,462 6,126           5,173       4,174       3,852 \
Revenues from Independent Resource 6,741 6,377           5,424       4,424       4,103 \
Total component expenses 12,203 12,503 10,597   8,598     7,955     \
1.1.2 - National Data Collection and Reporting\
Annual departmental expenses:\
Payment from related entities 1,928 3,330           3,336       3,598       3,782 \
Revenues from Independent Resource 3,076 3,330           3,336       3,599       3,781 \
Total component expenses 5,004 6,660 6,672     7,197     7,563     \
1.1.3 - National Assessment\
Annual departmental expenses:\
Payment from related entities 5,385 5,994           5,991       4,678       4,566 \
Revenues from Independent Resource 6,659 5,993           5,990       4,677       4,566 \
Total component expenses 12,044 11,987 11,981   9,355     9,132     \
Total program expenses 29,251 31,150 29,250 25,150 24,650ACARA Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
147 \
Program 1.1 Deliverables   \
\'95 Shape of the Australian Curriculum v4.0, including articulation of the place of all \
learning areas, general capabilities and cross\'96curriculum priorities within the \
context of the overall school curriculum approved.\
\'95 Nationally agreed and consistent approaches for assessment and reporting in \
relation to the F\'9610 Australian Curriculum further developed. \
\'95 Senior secondary curriculum for the Phase 1 learning areas English, mathematics, \
science and history finalised and submitted to Ministers for approval.\
\'95 Articulation of how the Australian Curriculum meets the learning needs of \
students with special education needs  and of students for whom English is \
another language or dialect (EAL/D) completed.\
\'95 Publication of F-10 Australian Curriculum for geography, languages (Chinese, \
Italian and an Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Languages Framework) and \
the arts. \
\'95 Writing of the Australian Curriculum to be well advanced in the Phase 3 learning \
areas of health and physical education and technologies, and shape papers for \
the civics and citizenship and economics and business studies learning areas \
published. \
\'95 Process for monitoring and evaluation  of implemented Australian Curriculum \
reviewed and endorsed by states and territories.\
Program 1.1 Key Performance Indicators  \
\'95 Each phase of the Australian Curriculum is delivered within the timeframes \
agreed by SCSEEC. \
\'95 The Australian Curriculum caters for and engages all learners, including \
students with disabilities and those for whom English is an additional \
language/dialect. \
\'95 The Australian Curriculum gives due emphasis to general capabilities and to the\
cross-curricular priorities of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander histories and \
cultures, Asia and Australia\'92s engagement with Asia and sustainability.ACARA Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
148 \
Program 1.2: National Data Collection and Reporting \
Program 1.2 objectives \
\'95 To provide a richer array of information on Australian schools and on student \
achievement, progress and participation. \
\'95 To extend and improve ways of enabling schools to benchmark their \
performance against other schools with similar characteristics and similar \
student backgrounds and academic starting points. \
\'95 To further develop national key performance measures, including measures of \
student engagement and stakeholder satisfaction. \
Program 1.2 expenses \
ACARA has not identified any significant trends, changes or variances in program \
expenses over the forward years. \
Program 1.2 deliverables   \
\'95 New release of information on the My School website. \
\'95 Integrated platform for delivery of national school opinion surveys developed. \
\'95 National Report on Schooling in Australia 2011 published. \
\'95 NAP Sample Public Report, and NAPLAN Summary and National Reports 2012 \
published.\
Program 1.2 Key Performance Indicators   \
\'95 The data reported in the National Report on Schooling in Australia, the NAPLAN \
reports and on the My School website are materially accurate. \
\'95 The  National Report on Schooling,  NAPLAN Summary Report,  NAPLAN National \
Report, and NAP Sample Public Report are published annually. \
\'95 An additional year\'92s data on the My School website is provided, including any \
specific new measures requested by Ministers. ACARA Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
149 \
Program 1.3: National Assessment \
Program 1.3 objectives \
\'95 To align national assessments with the Australian Curriculum and ensure that \
they validly, reliably and fairly capture achievement across a wide range of \
learning areas and valued outcomes, particularly those capabilities of special \
importance in the 21st century. \
\'95 To develop with key stakeholders and strategic partners options for national \
consistency in senior secondary assessment and certification. \
\'95 To ensure that national assessments enable accurate monitoring of student and \
school performance and progress while promoting good pedagogical practices. \
  \
Program 1.3 expenses \
ACARA has not identified any significant trends, changes or variances in program \
expenses over the forward years. \
Program 1.3 deliverables   \
\'95 Delivery and analysis of National Assessment Program \'96 Literacy & Numeracy \
(NAPLAN) tests. \
\'95 Delivery and analysis of National Assessment Program \'96 Sample Assessment \
(triennial cycle) tests.  \
\'95 Phase one investigation report for online delivery of NAP tests. \
\'95 Draft national assessment frameworks aligned with the Australian Curriculum.  \
\'95 Revised architecture and Key Performance Measures for NAP Sample program. \
\'95 Enhanced protocols to provide an agreed framework for nationally consistent \
test administration. ACARA Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
150 \
Program 1.3 Key Performance Indicators   \
\'95 NAPLAN and NAP Sample tests are conducted annually. \
\'95 NAPLAN and NAP Sample results are analysed accurately and meaningfully for \
reporting against common scales.  \
\'95 Greater consistency is achieved in national test administration and ensuring test \
integrity. \
\'95 Investigation report for online delivery of NAP tests is provided to SCSEEC. \
\'95 Draft assessment frameworks aligned with the Australian Curriculum are \
finalised. \
\'95 Revised architecture and Key Performance Measures for the NAP Sample \
program are approved by SCSEEC. ACARA Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
151 \
Section 3: Explanatory tables and budgeted financial \
statements \
Section 3 presents explanatory tables and budgeted financial statements which provide \
a comprehensive snapshot of agency finances for the 2012-13 to 2015-16 budget years. \
It explains how budget plans are incorporated into the financial statements and \
provides further details of the reconciliation between appropriations and program \
expenses, movements in administered funds, special accounts and government \
indigenous expenditure. \
3.1 EXPLANATORY TABLES\
3.1.1 Movement of administered funds between years \
ACARA has no administered funds. For this reason Table 3.1.1 is not presented. \
3.1.2 Special Accounts \
ACARA has no special accounts. For this reason Table 3.1.2 is not presented. \
3.1.3 Australian Government Indigenous Expenditure \
The 2012-13 Australian Government Indigenous Statement is not applicable because \
ACARA has no Indigenous specific expenses. For this reason Table 3.1.3 is not \
presented.  ACARA Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
152 \
3.2 BUDGETED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\
3.2.1 Differences in agency resourcing and financial statements \
There are no differences in agency resourcing and the financial statements.\
3.2.2 Analysis of budgeted financial statements \
The Commonwealth has allocated funding for ACARA of up to $54.6 million from \
2012-13 to 2015\'9616.  \
In October 2011 Ministers agreed to ACARA\'92s total budget of $109.2 million over four \
years, 2012-13 to 2015-16 being equally shared between the Commonwealth and the \
States and based on the current Territories SCSEEC funding formula. ACARA Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
153 \
3.2.3 Budgeted financial statements tables \
Table 3.2.1 Comprehensive Income Statement (Showing Net Cost of Services) \
(for the period ended 30 June) \
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
EXPENSES\
Employee benefits 13,750    13,893    13,730    13,621    13,738    \
Supplier expenses 14,616    16,463    14,702    10,687    10,044    \
Depreciation and amortisation 885         794* 818* 842* 868*\
Other -              -              -              -              -              \
Total expenses 29,251    31,150    29,250    25,150    24,650    \
LESS: \
OWN- SOURCE INCOM E\
Ow n-source revenue\
Inter es t 300         250         250         250         250         \
Other 26,251    30,900    29,000    24,900    24,400    \
Total ow n-source revenue 26,551    31,150    29,250    25,150    24,650    \
Gains\
Other -                            -              - -              -              \
Total gains              -              -              -              -              -\
Total ow n-source income 26,551    31,150    29,250    25,150    24,650    \
Net cost of (contribution by)\
s e r vice s  2,700      -              -              -              -              \
Revenue from Government -              -              -              -              -              \
Surplus (Deficit) (2,700)     -                            - -              -              \
Surplus (Deficit) attributable to the \
Australian Government (2,700)     -                            - -              -              \
OTHER COM PREHENSIV E INCOM E\
Changes in asset revaluation reserves -                            -              - -              -              \
Total other comprehensive               -              -              - -              -              \
Total comprehensive income (2,700)     -                            - -              -              \
Total comprehensive income \
attributable to the\
Australian Government (2,700)     -* -* -* -*ACARA Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
154 \
Table 3.2.1 Comprehensive Income Statement (Showing Net Cost of Services) \
(for the period ended 30 June) (continued) \
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis. \
Note: Reconciliation of comprehensive income attributable to the agency\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Total Comprehensive Income \
(loss) Attributable to the \
Australian Government (2,700)     -                            - -              -              \
plus non-appropriated expenses\
heritage and cultural depreciation\
and amortisation expenses -                            -              - -              -              \
Total Comprehensive Income \
(loss) Attributable to the \
agency     (2,700) -                            - -              -              \
1\
 From 2009-10, the Government replaced Bill 1 revenue appropriations for the heritage and cultural \
depreciation expenses of designated Collection Institutions, w ith a separate capital budget (the Collection \
Development Acquisition Budget, or CDAB) provided through Bill 2 equity appropriations. For information \
regarding CDABs, please refer to Table 3.2.5 Departmental Capital Budget Statement.ACARA Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
155 \
Table 3.2.2 Budgeted Departmental Balance Sheet (as at 30 June) \
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis. \
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
ASSETS\
Financial  as s e ts\
Cash and cash equivalents 3,683 4,008 4,317      4,050      3,475      \
Trade and other receivables 210 215 220         175         110         \
Total financial assets 3,893 4,223 4,537      4,225      3,585      \
Non-financial  as s e ts\
Property, plant and equipment 2,530      1,986      1,418      826         208         \
Other 95 100 105         95           75           \
Total non-financial assets 2,625 2,086 1,523      921         283         \
Assets held for sale -              -              -              -              -              \
Total  as s e ts  6,518  6,309  6,060      5,146      3,868      \
LIABILITIES\
Payables\
Suppliers 2,300 2,400 2,450      1,900      1,200      \
Other 1,540 1,156 772         388         -              \
Total payables 3,840 3,556 3,222      2,288      1,200      \
Interest bearing liabilities\
Other -              -              -              -              -              \
Total interest bearing liabilities              - -              -              -              -              \
Provisions\
Employee provisions 700 775 860         880         690         \
Total provisions 700 775 860         880         690         \
Liabilities included in disposal\
groups held for sale -              -              -              -              -              \
Total liabilities 4,540 4,331 4,082      3,168      1,890      \
Ne t  as s e ts  1,978  1,978  1,978      1,978      1,978      \
EQUIT Y*\
Parent entity interest\
Contributed equity -              -              -              -              -              \
Res er v es -              -              -              -              -              \
Retained surplus 1,978 1,978 1,978      1,978      1,978      \
(accumulated deficit)\
Total parent entity interest 1,978 1,978 1,978      1,978      1,978      \
Total Equity 1,978 1,978 1,978      1,978      1,978      ACARA Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
156 \
Table 3.2.3: Departmental Statement of Changes in Equity \'96 summary of \
movement (Budget year 2012-13) \
Retained Asset Other Contributed Total\
earnings revaluation reserves equity/ equity\
reserve capital\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Opening balance as at 1 July 2012\
Balance carried forw ard from\
previous period 1,978 -               -           -               1,978\
Adjustment for changes in\
accounting policies -          -               -           -               -          \
Adjusted opening balance 1,978 -               -           -               1,978\
Comprehensive income\
Surplus (deficit) for the period -          -               -           -               -          \
Total comprehensive income          - -               -           -               -          \
Transactions with owners\
Distributions by owners\
Other  -          -               -           -               -          \
Contributions by owners\
Other -          -               -           -               -          \
Sub-total transactions with owners          - -               -           -               -          \
Transfers betw een equity\
components -          -               -           -               -          \
Estimated closing balance\
as at 30 June 2013 1,978 -               -           -               1,978\
Less: non-controlling interests * -          -               -           -               -          \
Closing balance attributable to the \
Australian Government 1,978 -               -           -               1,978\
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.ACARA Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
157 \
Table 3.2.4: Budgeted Departmental Statement of Cash Flows              \
 (for the period ended 30 June) \
Table 3.2.5: Capital Budget Statement \
ACARA does not have a departmental capital budget. For this reason Table 3.2.5 is not \
presented. \
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
OPERATING ACTIVITIES\
Cas h  r e ce ive d\
Goods and services 25,307 30,900 29,000     24,900     24,400     \
Interest 300 250 250          250          250          \
Total cash received 25,607 31,150 29,250     25,150     24,650     \
Cash used\
Employees 13,375 13,520 13,680     13,510     14,250     \
Suppliers 18,967 17,055 15,011     11,657     10,725\
Total cash used 32,342 30,575 28,691     25,167     24,975     \
Net cash from (used by)\
operating activities (6,735)     575          559          (17)          (325)        \
INV ESTING  ACTIV ITIES\
Cas h  r e ce ive d\
Other -              -              -              -              -              \
Total cash received              - -              -              -              -              \
Cash used\
Purchase of property, plant \
and equipment 440 250 250          250          250          \
Total cash used 440 250 250          250          250          \
Net cash from (used by)  \
investing activities (440)        (250)        (250)        (250)        (250)        \
FINANCING ACTIVITIES\
Cas h  r e ce ive d\
Other -              -              -              -              -              \
Total cash received              - -              -              -              -              \
Cash used\
Other -              -              -              -              -              \
Total cash used              - -              -              -              -              \
Net cash from (used by)  \
financing activities              - -              -              -              -              \
Ne t  incr e as e   (de cr e  as  e )\
in cash held (7,175)     325          309          (267)        (575)        \
Cash and cash equivalents at the\
beginning of the reporting period 10,858 3,683 4,008       4,317       4,050       \
Effect of exchange rate movements \
on cash and cash equivalents at \
the beginning of reporting period -              -              -              -              -              \
Cas h  and  cas h  e quivale nts   at  the  \
end of the reporting period 10,858 3,683 4,008       4,317       4,050       ACARA Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
158 \
Table 3.2.6: Statement of Asset Movements (2012-13) \
Land Buildings Other property, Intangibles Total\
plant and\
equipmen t\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
As a t 1 July 2 0 12\
Gross book value -                -                       4 ,3 7 2 -                            4 ,3 7 2\
Accumulated depreciation/amortisation \
and  impa irment  -                -                       (1,8 4 2 )                       -                            (1,8 4 2 )              \
O  p e  n in  g   n e  t   b o  o k   b a  la  n c  e                - -                        2 , 5 3 0  -                 2 ,5 3 0\
C A P  IT  A L   A S  S  ET   A  D D IT  IO  N  S\
Es t ima  t e  d   e  xp  e  n d  it u  re   o n\
n e  w  o r  re p la  c e me n t   a sse  t s\
By pu rchase  -  approp riation equity \
1\
                - -                       -                                   -                            -                          \
By pu rchase  -  approp riation ordina ry\
annual services \
2\
                - -                       -                                   -                            -                          \
By purchase - donated funds -                -                       -                                   -                            -                          \
By purchase - other -                -                       2 5 0                            -                            2 5 0\
By  finance  lease  -                -                       -                                   -                            -                          \
Assets received as gifts/donations -                -                       -                                   -                            -                          \
T o  t a  l  a  d d  it io n  s                - -                        2 5 0  -                 2 5 0\
Othe r move me nts\
Asse ts held  fo r sale  or  in  a disposal \
group he ld  for sa le  -                -                       -                                   -                            -                          \
Deprec iation /amortisation expense  -                -                       (7 9 4 )                           -                            (7 9 4 )                  \
Disposals \
3\
Other -                -                       -                                   -                            -                          \
A s   a t   3 0   Ju n e   2 0 13\
Gross book value -                -                       4 ,6 2 2 -                            4 ,6 2 2\
Accumulated depreciation/amortisation\
and  impa irment  -                -                       (2 ,6 3 6 )                      -                            (2 ,6 3 6 )             \
C lo s in g   n e  t   b o o k  b a  la  n c  e                - -                        1, 9 8 6 -                 1,9 8 6\
1\
 "Appropriation equity" refers to equity injections or Administered Assets and Liabilities appropriations provided through\
Appropriation Bill (No.2) 2012-13, including CDABs.\
2\
 "Appropriation ordinary annual services" refers to funding provided through Appropriation Bill (No.1) 2012-13 for \
depreciation / amortisation expenses, DCBs / ACBs or other operational expenses.\
3\
 Proceeds may be returned to the OPA.ACARA Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
159 \
Table 3.2.7: Schedule of Budgeted Income and Expenses Administered on behalf \
of Government (for the period ended 30 June)\
ACARA has no income and expenses administered on behalf of government. For this \
reason Table 3.2.7 is not presented.\
Table 3.2.8: Schedule of Budgeted Assets and Liabilities Administered on behalf \
of Government (as at 30 June) \
ACARA has no assets and liabilities administered on behalf of government. For this \
reason Table 3.2.8 is not presented. \
Table 3.2.9: Schedule of Budgeted Administered Cash Flows \
(for the period ended 30 June) \
ACARA has no administered cash flows. For this reason Table 3.2.9 is not presented.\
Table 3.2.10: Schedule Administered Capital Budget \
ACARA has no administered capital budget. For this reason Table 3.2.10 is not \
presented. \
Table 3.2.11 Schedule of Asset Movements - Administered \
ACARA has no administered asset movements. For this reason Table 3.2.11 is not \
presented. \
3.2.4 Notes to the financial statements \
The budgeted financial statements for ACARA are prepared for the current year and \
the 2012-13 budget year. The  accounting policies used in preparing these financial \
statements are consistent with those used in the 2010-11 Annual Report. 161 \
AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTE \
FOR TEACHING AND \
SCHOOL LEADERSHIP \
(POSITIONAL ONLY) 163 \
AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTE FOR TEACHING AND SCHOOL \
LEADERSHIP\
Section 1: Agency overview and resources ........................................................... 165\
1.1 Strategic direction ......................................................................................... 165\
1.2 Agency resource statement .......................................................................... 166\
Section 2: Outcomes and planned performance ................................................... 167\
2.1 Outcomes and performance information ...................................................... 167\
Section 3: Explanatory tables and budgeted financial statements ..................... 173\
3.1 Explanatory tables ........................................................................................ 173 \
3.2 Budgeted Financial Statements .................................................................... 173 AITSL Budget Statements \'96 Overview & resources \
165 \
AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTE FOR TEACHING AND SCHOOL \
LEADERSHIP LIMITED\
Section 1: Agency overview and resources \
1.1 STRATEGIC DIRECTION\
The Australian Institute for Teaching and School Leadership (AITSL) came into being \
on 1 January 2010.  \
AITSL is a public company limited by guarantee under the Corporations Act 2001 and is \
subject to the  Commonwealth Authorities and Companies Act 1997. The Minister for \
Education is the sole member of the company. AITSL operates under its own \
constitution, with priorities set by the Ministerial Council for Education, Early \
Childhood Development and Youth Affairs through a Letter of Expectation dated 14 \
December 2009 and by the Standing Council on School Education and Early Childhood \
(SCSEEC) through a Letter of Expectation dated 23 March 2012.  \
The number of Directors on the Board decreased from 17 to nine from 1 April 2012. \
Previously, the Board included nominees from jurisdictions, the Australian \
Government, the Catholic and independent school sectors, teacher unions, professional \
associations, principals\'92 associations and the Deans of Education.  \
The current Board, appointed by the Australian Government Minister for School \
Education, includes a Chair and Deputy Chair nominated by the Australian \
Government and individuals from the Catholic and independent school sectors, \
teacher unions, principals\'92 associations, state and territory regulatory authorities and \
AEEYSOC.  \
AITSL\'92s primary purpose is to provide national leadership for the Commonwealth, \
state and territory governments in promoting excellence in the profession of teaching \
and school leadership.  \
AITSL has a significant role in delivering the reforms agreed to through the Council of \
Australian Governments (COAG) National Partnership on Improving Teacher Quality, \
which targets critical points in the teacher lifecycle to attract, train, place, develop and \
retain quality teachers and leaders in schools and classrooms.  \
AITSL has responsibility for rigorous national professional standards and fostering \
and driving high quality professional development for teachers and school leaders by \
working collaboratively across jurisdictions and engaging with key professional \
bodies. AITSL Budget Statements \'96 Overview & resources \
166 \
 Building on national professional standards for teachers and school leaders, AITSL \
will pursue reform in the areas of professional learning for teachers and school leaders, \
teacher registration, accreditation of initial teacher education programs, certification of \
teachers at the highly accomplished and lead teacher levels and a national teacher \
performance and development framework, and will administer prestigious national \
awards for teachers and school leaders.\
1.2 AGENCY RESOURCE STATEMENT\
Table 1.1 shows the total resources from all sources. The table summarises how \
resources will be applied by outcome and by administered and departmental \
classification. \
Table 1.1: Australian Institute for Teaching and School Leadership Resource \
Statement for 2012-13 as at Budget May 2012 \
Estimate Proposed Total Actual\
of prior\
+\
at Budget\
=\
estimate available\
year amounts appropria tion\
 available in\
2 0 12 - 13 2 0 12 - 13 2 0 12 - 13 2 0 11- 12\
Source $'000 $ '000 $'000 $ '000\
O p e  n in g   b a la  n c e / R e  se rve s   a t   b a n k  8 , 5  11                         -  8 , 5  11                              - \
R EV  EN U E  F  R O  M   G  O  V  ER N M EN T\
O  rd in a  ry  a  n n u  a  l  se  rv ic  e  s \'b9\
Outcome 1 -                    14 ,0 0 0 14 ,0 0 0 -                             \
T o t a l  o rd in a ry   a n n u a l  se  rvic  e s    8 , 5  11  14 , 0  0 0  2 2 , 5  11  -                  \
Othe r se rvic e s\'b2\
Non- operating                  - -                                       - -                             \
T o  t a  l  o  t h e  r  se  rvic  e  s   -                                 - -               -                  \
T o  t a  l  a  n n u a  l  a  p p  ro p ria  t io n s  8  ,  5  11  14  ,  0  0  0  2  2  ,  5  11  -\
T  o t a  l  f u n d s   f ro m  G  o ve  rn me  n t  8  ,  5  11  14  ,  0  0  0  2  2  ,  5  11  -\
F  U N D S   F  R O  M   IN D U S  T  R Y   S  O  U R C ES\
F  U N D S   F  R O  M   O  T  H ER   S  O  U R C ES\
In te re st -                             3 0 0 3 0 0 -                             \
Royalties -                             -                        -                        -                             \
Sale of goods and services -                             6 0 0 6 0 0 -                             \
Other -                             0 0 -                             \
T o  t a  l                             - 9 0 0  9 0 0                             -\
T o t a l  n e t   re so u rc  in g   f o r  a g e n c y  8 , 5  11  14 , 9  0 0  2 3 , 4  11 -\
All figures are GST exclusive\
CRF - Consolidated Revenue Fund\
2\
 Appropriation Bill (No.2) 2012- 13AITSL Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
167 \
Section 2: Outcomes and planned performance \
2.1 OUTCOMES AND PERFORMANCE INFORMATION\
Government outcomes are the intended results, impacts or consequences of actions by \
the Government on the Australian community. Commonwealth programs are the \
primary vehicle by which government agencies achieve the intended results of their \
outcome statements. Agencies are required to identify the programs which contribute \
to Government outcomes over the Budget and forward years. \
Each outcome is described below together with its related programs, specifying the \
performance indicators and targets used to assess and monitor the performance of the \
Australian Institute for Teaching and School Leadership in achieving Government \
outcomes. \
Outcome 1: Enhance the quality of teaching and school leadership through \
developing standards, recognising teaching excellence, providing \
professional development opportunities and supporting the teaching \
profession \
Outcome 1 Strategy \
AITSL is working with education authorities, teacher unions, professional associations, \
teachers, principals and teacher educators to strengthen the profession. It will \
undertake a range of targeted activities,  complementing the work of other education \
agencies, to enhance the quality of teaching and school leadership and to support the \
professionalism of teachers and school leaders.  \
Through the strategies adopted to achieve Outcome 1, AITSL is contributing to the \
objectives of the COAG National Partnership on Improving Teacher Quality leading to \
improved educational outcomes.  \
Key strategies in 2012-13 will be to:  \
\'95 Support the implementation of the national professional standards for teachers. \
\'95 Support the implementation of the agreed national approach to accrediting initial \
teacher education programs. \
\'95 Monitor and support the implementation  of elements of policy endorsed by \
Ministers for the nationally consistent registration of teachers, including renewal of \
registration. AITSL Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
168 \
\'95 Develop, consult on and gain Ministerial endorsement for a proposal for a national \
approach to certification of teachers at the Highly Accomplished and Lead teacher \
levels. \
\'95 Develop a proposal for a national teacher performance and development \
framework. \
\'95 Promulgate the national professional standard for principals.  \
\'95 Develop and consult on a national professional learning framework.  \
\'95 Develop, launch and maintain an online Clearinghouse repository of latest research \
and best-practice in the field of school leadership development. \
\'95 Develop two Professional Learning Flagship Programs: Leading Curriculum \
Change and Empowering Local Schools. \
\'95 Administer the annual national awards for teachers and school leaders. \
\'95 Undertake and engage with leading national and international research and \
innovative developments to support its work through a strong evidence base.  \
\'95 Undertake the role of assessing authority under the Migration Regulations 1994 for \
the purposes of skilled migration to Australia as a pre-primary, primary, \
secondary, or special education school teacher.  \
\'95 Effectively implement and maintain high standards of corporate governance.  \
AITSL\'92s target group is the 250,000 teachers and school leaders across all educational \
jurisdictions and sectors. AITSL\'92s strategic  approach is to work collaboratively with \
jurisdictions and other key stakeholders  including the profession itself and to \
complement the significant investment of school authorities in quality teaching and \
school leadership through targeted national activities.  AITSL Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
169 \
Table 2.1: Budgeted Expenses and Resources for Outcome 1 \
2011-12 2012-13\
Estimated Estimated\
actual expenses\
expenses\
$'000 $'000\
Program 1: Assistance for quality teaching and learning\
Revenue from Government\
Payment from related entities 22,201 14,000\
Revenues from other independent sources 778 900\
Total for Program 1 22,979 14,900\
Outcome 1 Totals by resource type\
Revenue from Government\
Payment from related entities 22,201 14,000\
Revenues from other independent sources 778 900\
Total expenses for Outcome 1 22,979 14,900\
2011-12 2012-13\
Average Staffing Level (number) 34                  50                  \
Outcome 1: Enhance the quality of teaching and school \
leadership through developing standards, recognising \
teaching excellence, providing professional development \
opportunities and supporting the teaching profession.AITSL Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
170 \
Contributions to Outcome 1 \
Program 1.1 Assistance for Quality Teaching and Learning \
Program 1.1 objective \
\'95 Support the implementation of the national professional standards for teachers. \
\'95 Support the implementation of the agreed national approach to accrediting \
initial teacher education programs. \
\'95 Monitor and support the implementation  of elements of policy endorsed by \
Ministers for the nationally consistent registration of teachers, including renewal \
of registration. \
\'95 Develop, consult on and gain Ministerial endorsement for a proposal for a \
national approach to certification of teachers at the Highly Accomplished and \
Lead teacher levels. \
\'95 Develop a proposal for a national teacher performance and development \
framework. \
\'95 Promulgate the national professional standard for principals.  \
\'95 Develop and consult on a national professional learning framework.  \
\'95 Develop, launch and maintain an online Clearinghouse repository of latest \
research and best-practice in the field of school leadership development. \
\'95 Develop two Professional Learning Flagship Programs: Leading Curriculum \
Change and Empowering Local Schools. \
\'95 Administer the annual national awards for teachers and school leaders. \
\'95 Undertake and engage with leading national and international research and \
innovative developments to support its work through a strong evidence base.  \
\'95 Undertake the role of assessing authority under the Migration Regulations 1994 for \
the purposes of skilled migration to Australia as a pre-primary, primary, \
secondary, or special education school teacher.  \
\'95 Effectively implement and maintain high standards of corporate governance.  \
   AITSL Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
171 \
Program 1.1 expenses\
Program 1.1 Deliverables  \
Deliverable 2012\'9613 Target \
National Professional Standards for \
Teachers \
Materials developed to support the \
implementation of the National Professional \
Standards for Teachers  \
Teacher registration Endorsement by Ministers of proposal for \
nationally consistent registration. \
Certification of teachers at the Highly \
Accomplished and Lead teacher levels \
Endorsement by Ministers of proposal for a \
national approach to certification of teachers \
at Highly Accomplished and Lead. \
Teacher performance and development  Proposal developed for national teacher \
performance and development framework. \
National Professional Standard for \
Principals \
Endorsement and promulgation of Standard. \
National approach to the Accreditation of \
Initial Teacher Education \
Accreditation Guide developed and \
assessment panels trained to undertake first \
round of accreditation activities. \
National Professional Learning Framework Endorsement of exposure draft for \
consultation. \
Online Clearinghouse on school leadership \
development \
Clearinghouse developed, launched, \
promoted and maintained \
   \
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Annual departmental expenses:\
Departmental item 18,896 14,900             -              -              - \
Expenses not requiring appropriation in\
the Budget year \
1\
                          -              -              -              -  -\
Total  pr ogr am   e xpe ns e s   18,896  14,900            - -            -            \
1\
 Expenses not requiring appropriation in the Budget year is made up of Depreciation Expense, Amortisation \
Expense, Makegood Expense, Audit Fees.AITSL Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
172 \
Program 1.1 Deliverables (continued) \
Deliverable 2012-13 Target \
Professional Learning Flagship Programs: \
Leading Curriculum Change and \
Empowering Local Schools \
Online Leading Curriculum Change program \
developed and delivered; Empowering Local \
Schools program designed. \
National awards for teachers and school \
leaders \
Administer the annual national awards for \
teachers and school leaders and develop \
sabbatical programs for award recipients. \
Fulfilling the role of assessing authority \
under the Migration Regulations 1994 for \
the purposes of skilled migration to Australia \
as a pre-primary, primary or secondary, or \
special education school teacher.  \
Processing of applications undertaken to the \
satisfaction of relevant authorities.  \
Undertaking and engaging with national and \
international research and innovative \
developments in best practice.  \
Evidence base for AITSL\'92s work enhanced \
by research undertaken, with national and \
international agencies and international \
experts.  \
Implementation of measures to ensure high \
standards of corporate governance.  \
Audit, risk management and financial \
advisory structures established and \
operating with transparency and rigour.  \
Program 1.1 Key performance indicators \
AITSL provides national leadership for the Commonwealth, state and territory \
governments in promoting excellence in the profession of teaching and school \
leadership. AITSL Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
173 \
Section 3: Explanatory tables and budgeted financial \
statements \
Section 3 presents explanatory tables and budgeted financial statements which provide \
a comprehensive snapshot of agency finances for the budget year 2012-13. It explains \
how budget plans are incorporated into the financial statements and provides further \
details of the reconciliation between  appropriations and program expenses, \
movements in administered funds, special accounts and government Indigenous \
expenditure. \
3.1 EXPLANATORY TABLES\
3.1.1 Movement of administered funds between years \
AITSL has no administered funds. For this reason Table 3.1.1 is not presented. \
3.1.2 Special Accounts  \
AITSL has no special accounts. For this reason Table 3.1.2 is not presented. \
3.1.3 Australian Government Indigenous Expenditure  \
AITSL has no Indigenous specific expenses. For this reason Table 3.1.3 is not \
presented.  \
3.2 BUDGETED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\
3.2.1 Differences in agency resourcing and financial statements \
There are no differences in agency resourcing and the financial statements. \
3.2.2 Analysis of budgeted financial statements \
In April 2010 MCEECDYA agreed to a total budget of $41.8 million for the period \
2009-10 to 2012-13. Over the same period, income from Overseas Skills Assessment is \
estimated to be $2.3 million. Further funding variations have been agreed for \
subsequent years to enable AITSL to broaden its project base. \
AITSL is budgeting for an underspend of its funding in the financial year 2011-12 \
resulting in a surplus of $4.1 million. The budget for the 2012-13 financial year is break \
even. \
The net asset position of $8.5 million in at 30 June 2012 is expected to remain the same \
for 2012-13. Total assets at 30 June 2012 are estimated to be $12.6 million comprising \
$11.8 million of financial assets and $0.8 million in non-financial assets.  AITSL Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
174 \
Total liabilities at 30 June 2012 are estimated to be $4.1 million of which $0.4 million \
being accrued employee entitlements and $3.5 million towards supplier payables and \
$0.2 of other provisions.  \
3.2.3 Budgeted financial statements tables \
Table 3.2.1: Comprehensive Income Statement (showing Net Cost of Services) \
(for the period ended 30 June) \
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
EXPENSES\
Employee benefits 5,933      7,040                   - -             -             \
Suppliers 12,573    7,500                   - -             -             \
Depreciation and amortisation 390         360                      - -             -             \
Total expenses 18,896    14,900    -             -             -             \
LESS: \
OWN- SOURCE INCOM E\
Own-source revenue\
Sale of goods and rendering of services 578         600                      - -             -             \
Interest 200         300                      - -             -             \
Other 22,201    14,000    \
Total ow n-source revenue 22,979    14,900    -             -             -             \
Gains\
Other -                          - -             -             -             \
Total gains             -             - -             -             -             \
Total ow n-source income 22,979    14,900    -             -             -             \
Net cost of (contribution by)\
services 4,083      -             -             -             -             \
Revenue from Government -                          - -             -             -             \
Surplus (Deficit) attributable to\
 the Australian Government 4,083      -             -             -             -             \
OTHER COM PREHENSIV E INCOM E\
Changes in asset revaluation surplus\
Total comprehensive income (loss) 4,083      -             -             -             -             \
Total comprehensive income (loss)\
 attributable to the Australian \
Government 4,083      -             -             -             -             AITSL Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
175 \
Table 3.2.1: Comprehensive Income Statement (showing Net Cost of Services) \
(for the period ended 30 June) (continued) \
Note: Impact of Net Cash Appropriation Arrangements\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Total Comprehensive Income \
(loss) less heritage and cultural\
depreciation expenses previously\
funded through revenue appropriations 4,083 -              - - - \
plus heritage and cultural depreciation\
expenses previously funded through -             - - - -\
revenue appropriations\
1\
Total Comprehensive Income \
(loss) - as per the Statement of\
Comprehensive Income 4,083 -              - - - \
1\
 From 2009-10, the Government replaced Bill 1 revenue appropriations for the heritage and cultural \
depreciation expenses of designated Collection Institutions, w ith a separate capital budget (the Collection \
Development Acquisition Budget, or CDAB) provided through Bill 2 equity appropriations. For information \
regarding CDABs, please refer to Table 3.2.5 Departmental Capital Budget Statement.AITSL Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
176 \
Table 3.2.2: Budgeted Departmental Balance Sheet (as at 30 June) \
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
ASSETS\
Financial assets\
Cash and cash equivalents 8,438 8,131 -              -              -              \
Trade and other receivables 3,400 3,300 -              -              -              \
Other financial assets 65 59 -              -              -              \
Total financial assets 11,903 11,490              - -              -              \
Non-financial assets\
Property, plant and equipment 663 407 -              -              -              \
Intangibles -              21 -              -              -              \
Heritage and cultural 28 28           -              -              -              \
Total non-financial assets 691 456              - -              -              \
Assets held for sale -              -              -              -              -              \
Total assets 12,594 11,946\
LIABILITIES\
Payables\
Suppliers 2,750 2,035 -              -              -              \
Other payables 500 400 -              -              -\
Total payables 3,250 2,435              - -              -              \
Interest bearing liabilities\
Other interest bearing liabilities -              -              -              -              -              \
Tota  l   i nter est  bea r i ng  l i a bi l i ti es              - -              -              -              -              \
Provisions\
Employee provisions 650 940 -              -              -              \
Other provisions 183 60 -              -              -              \
Tota  l   pr ovi si ons 833 1,000              - -              -              \
Liabilities included in disposal\
groups held for sale -              -              -              -              -              \
Total liabilities 4,083 3,435              - -              -              \
Net assets 8,511 8,511              - -              -              \
EQUIT Y*\
Parent entity interest\
Contributed equity -              -              -              -              -              \
Res er v es -              -              -              -              -              \
Retained surplus\
(accumulated deficit) 8,511 8,511 -              -              -              \
Total parent entity interest 8,511 8,511              - -              -              \
Total Equity 8,511 8,511              - -              -              AITSL Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
177 \
Table 3.2.3: Departmental Statement of Changes in Equity \'97 summary of \
movement (Budget year 2012-13) \
Retained Asset Other Contributed Total\
earnings revaluation reserves equity/ equity\
reserve capital\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Opening balance as at 1 July 2012\
Balance carried forw ard from\
previous period 8,511 -               -           -               8,511\
Adjusted opening balance 8,511 -               -           -               8,511\
Comprehensive income\
Surplus (deficit) for the period -          -               -           -               -          \
Total comprehensive income          - -               -           -               -          \
Transactions with owners\
Distributions to owners\
Other  -          -               -           -               -          \
Contributions by owners\
Other -          -               -           -               -          \
Sub-total transactions with owners          - -               -           -               -          \
Transfers betw een equity\
components -          -               -           -               -          \
Estimated closing balance\
as at 30 June 2013 8,511               - -           -                8,511\
Less: non-controlling interests * -          -               -           -               -          \
Closing balance attributable to the \
Australian Government 8,511               - -           -                8,511AITSL Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
178 \
Table 3.2.4: Budgeted Departmental Statement of Cash Flows  \
(for the period ended 30 June) \
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
OPERATING ACTIVITIES\
Cas h  r e ce ive d\
Reciepts from Government 18,978 14,000 -              -              -              \
Sale of goods and rendering of services 650 606 -              -              -              \
Interest 200 300 -              -              -              \
Total cash received 19,828 14,906              - -              -              \
Cash used\
Employees 5,737 6,750 -              -              -              \
Suppliers 11,371 8,338 -              -              -              \
Total cash used 17,108 15,088              - -              -              \
Net cash from (used by)\
operating activities 2,720 (182)                      - -              -              \
INVESTING ACTIVITIES\
Cas h  r e ce ive d\
Other -              -              -              -              -              \
Total cash received              - -              -              -              -              \
Cash used\
Purchase of property, plant \
and equipment 119 125 -              -              -              \
Total cash used 119 125              - -              -              \
Net cash from (used by)  \
investing activities (119)        (125)                      - -              -              \
FINANCING ACTIVITIES\
Cas h  r e ce ive d\
Other -              -              -              -              -              \
Total cash received              - -              -              -              -              \
Cash used\
Other -              -              -              -              -              \
Total cash used              - -              -              -              -              \
Net cash from (used by)  \
financing activities              - -              -              -              -              \
Ne  t  incr e  as e   (de cr e as e )\
in cash held 2,601 (307)                      - -              -              \
Cash and cash equivalents at the\
beginning of the reporting period 5,837 8,438 -              -              -              \
Effect of exchange rate movements \
on cash and cash equivalents at \
the beginning of reporting period -              -              -              -              -              \
Cash and cash equivalents at the \
end of the reporting period 8,438 8,131              - -              -              AITSL Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
179 \
Table 3.2.4: Budgeted Departmental Statement of Cash Flows \
(for the period ended 30 June) (continued) \
Table 3.2.5: Departmental Capital Budget Statement \
AITSL does not have a departmental capital budget. For this reason Table 3.2.5 is not \
presented. \
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
FINANCING ACTIVITIES\
Cas h  r e ce ive d\
Contributed equity -              -              -              -              -              \
Other -              -              -              -              -              \
Total cash received              - -              -              -              -              \
Cas h  us e d\
Other -              -              -              -              -              \
Total cash used              - -              -              -              -              \
Net cash from (used by)  \
financing activities              - -              -              -              -              \
Ne t  incr e as e   (de cr e as e )\
in cash held 2,601 -307              - -              -              \
Cash and cash equivalents at the\
beginning of the reporting period 5,837 8,438 -              -              -              \
Effect of exchange rate movements \
on cash and cash equivalents at \
the beginning of reporting period -              -              -              -              -              \
Cash and cash equivalents at the \
end of the reporting period 8,438 8,131              - -              -              AITSL Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
180 \
Table 3.2.6: Statement of Asset Movements (2012-13) \
  \
Land Bu ild ings Other property, Heritage Computer To ta l\
plant and and cu ltural so ftwa re  and\
equipment  in tangibles\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
As a t 1 July 2 0 12\
Gross book va lue  -  - 1,420 28 345 1,793\
Accumu la ted deprec ia tion/amortisa tion \
and  impairment  -  -  (757)  -  (345)  (1,102)\
O  p e  n in g   n e  t   b o o k   b a  la  n c  e - - 6 6 3  2 8 - 6 9 1\
C A P  IT A L   A S  S  ET   A D D IT IO  N S\
Es t ima  t e  d   e  xp e  n d it u re   o n\
n e  w  o r  re  p la  c  e  me  n t   a  sse  t s\
By purchase  -  appropria tion equity \
1\
- -  100  -  25 125\
By purchase  -  appropria tion ordinary\
annual se rvices \
2\
- -  -  -  -  -\
T o t a  l  a  d d it io n s - - 10 0 - 2 5  12 5\
Othe r move me nts\
Deprec ia tion/amortisa tion expense  -  -  (356)  -  (4)  (360)\
Disposals \
3\
- -  -  -  -  -\
T o t a  l  o t h e  r  mo ve  me  n t s - - ( 3  5  6  ) - ( 4 )  ( 3 6 0 )\
A s   a t   3 0   Ju n e   2 0 13\
Gross book va lue  -  - 1,520 28 370 1,918\
Accumu la ted deprec ia tion/amortisa tion\
and  impairment  -  -  (1,113 )  -  (349)  (1,462)\
C lo s in g   n e  t   b o o k   b a  la  n c  e - - 4 0 7  2 8  2 1  4 5 6\
1\
 "Appropriation equity" refers to equity injections or Administered Assets and Liabilities appropriations provided through\
Appropriation Bill (No.2) 2012-13, including CDABs.\
2\
 "Appropriation ordinary annual services" refers to funding provided through Appropriation Bill (No.1) 2012-13 for \
depreciation / amortisation expenses, DCBs or other operational expenses.\
3\
 Net proceeds may be returned to the OPA.AITSL Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
181 \
Table 3.2.7: Schedule of Budgeted Income and Expenses Administered on behalf \
of Government (for the period ended 30 June) \
AITSL has no income and expenses administered on behalf of government. For this \
reason Table 3.2.7 is not presented. \
Table 3.2.8: Schedule of Budgeted Assets and Liabilities Administered on behalf \
of Government (as at 30 June) \
AITSL has no assets and liabilities administered on behalf of government. For this \
reason Table 3.2.8 is not presented. \
Table 3.2.9: Schedule of Budgeted Administered Cash Flows (for the period \
ended 30 June) \
AITSL has no administered cash flows. For this reason Table 3.2.9 is not presented. \
Table 3.2.10: Schedule of Administered Capital Budget  \
AITSL has no administered capital budget. For this reason Table 3.2.10 is not \
presented. \
Table 3.2.11: Schedule of Asset Movements - Administered  \
AITSL has no administered assets. For this reason Table 3.2.11 is not presented. 183 \
COMCARE, THE SAFETY,\
REHABILITATION AND \
COMPENSATION COMMISSION, AND \
THE SEAFARERS\'92 SAFETY,\
REHABILITATION AND \
COMPENSATION AUTHORITY\
(POSITIONAL ONLY) 185 \
COMCARE, THE SAFETY, REHABILITATION AND \
COMPENSATION COMMISSION, AND THE \
SEAFARERS SAFETY, REHABILITATION AND \
COMPENSATION AUTHORITY\
Section 1: Agency overview and resources ........................................................... 187\
1.1 Strategic direction ......................................................................................... 187\
1.2 Agency resource statement .......................................................................... 189\
1.3 Budget measures .......................................................................................... 190 \
Section 2: Outcomes and planned performance ................................................... 191\
2.1 Outcomes and performance information ...................................................... 191\
Section 3: Explanatory tables and budgeted financial statements ..................... 202\
3.1 Explanatory tables ........................................................................................ 202 \
3.2 Budgeted Financial Statements .................................................................... 204 Comcare Budget Statements \'96 Overview & resources \
187 \
COMCARE, THE SAFETY, REHABILITATION AND \
COMPENSATION COMMISSION, AND THE \
SEAFARERS SAFETY, REHABILITATION AND \
COMPENSATION AUTHORITY\
Section 1: Agency overview and resources \
1.1 STRATEGIC DIRECTION STATEMENT\
Comcare partners with workers, their employers and unions to keep workers healthy \
and safe, and reduce the incidence and cost of workplace injury and disease. Comcare \
is also responsible for managing Commonwealth common law liabilities for asbestos \
compensation. \
Comcare\'92s work is centred on three main dimensions: \
\'95 Innovation \'96 new services and support for workers \
\'95 Collaboration \'96 new initiatives partnering with stakeholders, business and \
governments \
\'95 Impact \'96 improved, efficient business practices, capacity and capability to deliver \
better services. \
Comcare is responsible for the following outcomes: \
\'95 The protection of the health, safety and welfare at work of workers covered by the \
Comcare scheme through education, assurance and enforcement \
\'95 An early and safe return to work and access to compensation for injured workers \
covered by the Comcare scheme through working in partnership with employers to \
create best practice in rehabilitation and quick and accurate management of \
workers\'92 compensation claims \
\'95 Access to compensation for people with asbestos-related diseases where the \
Commonwealth has a liability through management of claims. \
In addition to its regulatory and claims management functions, Comcare provides \
secretariat and related functions to support the Safety, Rehabilitation and \
Compensation Commission (SRCC) and the Seafarers Safety, Rehabilitation and \
Compensation Authority (Seacare Authority). Comcare Budget Statements \'96 Overview & resources \
188 \
For 2012-13, implementation of the 2015 Strategic Plan remains Comcare\'92s focus. The \
plan links directly to government priorities to improve productivity with higher \
workforce participation, to improve social inclusion, and build community resilience.  \
Comcare\'92s priorities in 2012-13 include:  \
\'95 tackling the increasing complexity and cost of claims \
\'95 bedding down the new work health and safety laws \
\'95 being an exemplary workplace \
\'95 making sure the dollars it spends really count \
\'95 making sure that how its people work together is as important as what it achieves.  Comcare Budget Statements \'96 Overview & resources \
189 \
1.2 AGENCY RESOURCE STATEMENT\
Table 1.1 shows the total resources from all sources. The table summarises how \
resources will be applied by outcome and by administered and departmental \
classification. \
Table 1.1: Comcare Resource Statement \'97 Budget Estimates for 2012-13 as at \
Budget May 2012 \
Estima te Proposed To ta l Ac tual\
of prio r\
+\
at Budge t\
=\
estima te available\
yea r amoun ts appropria tion\
 available  in\
2012- 13 2012 - 13 2012 - 13 2011- 12\
Source $'000 $ '000 $ '000 $ '000\
O p e n in g   b a la n c e / R e se rve s   a t   b a n k 2 19 ,5 8 4                         - 2 19 ,5 8 4 2 11,0 0 3\
R EV  EN U  E  F  R O  M   G  O  V  ER  N M EN T\
O  rd in a  ry   a  n n u a  l  se  rv ic  e  s\
2\
Ou tcome 1  -                    7 8 4 7 8 4 8 ,7 6 8\
Ou tcome 2  -                    4 2 4 4 2 4 4 4 5\
Ou tc o me 3                              - 5 ,0 9 2 5 ,0 9 2 5 ,19 0\
T o t a l  o rd in a ry   a n n u a l  se rv ic e s     -  6 , 3 0 0  6 , 3 0 0  14 , 4 0 3\
Othe r se rvic e s\
3\
Equity injec tion -                    -                        -                        7 ,112\
T o t a  l  o rd in a  ry   a  n n u a  l  se  rv ic  e  s     -                  -               -               7 ,112           \
T o t a  l  f u n d s   f ro m  G  o ve  rn me  n t  -                  6 ,3 0 0 6 ,3 0 0 2 1,5 15\
F  U  N D S   F  R O  M   IN  D U S  T  R Y   S  O  U R  C ES\
Licence  fees  -                             13 ,7 7 2 13 ,7 7 2 13 ,7 11\
T o  t a  l  -                  13 ,7 7 2 13 ,7 7 2 13 ,7 11\
F  U  N D S   F  R O  M   O  T  H  ER   S  O  U R C  ES\
In te re st -                             2 4 ,3 8 8 2 4 ,3 8 8 19 ,7 9 6\
Sa le  of goods and se rvices  -                             2 0 ,3 6 5 2 0 ,3 6 5 2 0 ,5 5 1\
Gran ts  from Po rtfo lio Departments\
4,5\
                             6 7 ,5 5 1 6 7 ,5 5 1 5 8 ,0 6 0 -\
Non Tax Revenue\
5\
                             2 7 ,3 6 8 2 7 ,3 6 8 8 9 ,114 -\
Wo rke rs' Compensa tion  Premiums  -                                                         346,322 346,322 266,692\
T o  t a  l  -                                    4 8 5 , 9 9 4  4 8 5 , 9 9 4  4 5 4 , 2 13\
T o t a l  n e t   re so u rc in g   f o r  a g e n c y  2 19 , 5 8 4  5 0 6 , 0 6 6  7 2 5 , 6 5 0  7 0 0 , 4 4 2\
All figures are GST exclusive.\
Co mcare is no t directly appropriated as it is a CAC Act body.  Appropriations are made to Department of Educatio n,  \
Employment and Wo rkplace Relations (DEEWR) which are then paid to Comcare and are considered\
 'departmental' for all purpo ses.\
4  \
Grants fro m Portfolio Departments include special appropriations under the Safety, Rehabilitation and \
Compensation Act 1988  for the payment of pre-premium claims costs and the Asbesto s-related Claims \
(M anagement of Commonwealth Liabilities) Act 2005 for asbestos-related claims settlements.\
3 \
Appropriation Bill (No. 2) 2012-13.\
5  \
The movements in workers' compensation and common law asbestos claim liabilities are non cash in nature and \
therefore excluded fro m the Statement.\
2 \
Appropriation Bill (No.1) 2012-13.Comcare Budget Statements \'96 Overview & resources \
190 \
1.3 BUDGET MEASURES\
Budget measures relating to Comcare are  detailed in Budget Paper No. 2 and are \
summarised below.  \
Table 1.2: Comcare 2012-13 Budget measures \
Prepared on a Government Finance Statistics (fiscal) basis. \
Program 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Expense Measures\
Implementation of model w ork health \
and safety law s\
1.1\
Departmental expenses 6,193   -       -       -       -       \
Total 6,193          - -       -       -       \
Efficiency Dividend - Increase in the \
rate\
1.1\
Departmental expenses (248)     -       -       -       -       \
Total (248)            - -       -       -       \
Total Expense measures\
Departmental expenses 5,945   -       -       -       -       \
Total 5,945   -       -       -       -       \
Capital Measures\
Implementation of model w ork health \
and safety law s\
1.1\
Departmental capital 7,112   -       -       -       -       \
Total 7,112   -       -       -       -       Comcare Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
191 \
Section 2: Outcomes and planned performance \
2.1 OUTCOMES AND PERFORMANCE INFORMATION\
Government outcomes are the intended results, impacts or consequences of actions \
by the Government on the Australian community. Commonwealth programs are the \
primary vehicle by which government agencies achieve the intended results of their \
outcome statements. Agencies are required to identify the programs which contribute \
to Government outcomes over the Budget and forward years. \
Each outcome is described below together with its related programs, specifying the \
performance indicators and targets used to assess and monitor the performance of \
Comcare in achieving Government outcomes. \
Outcome 1: The protection of the health, safety and welfare at work of workers \
covered by the Comcare scheme through education, assurance and \
enforcement. \
Outcome 1 Strategy \
Comcare will achieve this outcome through: \
\'95 Promoting worker health, wellbeing and resilience \
\'95 Education and assurance services that will focus on employers who do not get the \
safety message \
\'95 Focussing on preventing harm in the workplace, keeping workers healthy and safe \
at work, and reducing the number and severity of safety incidents \
\'95 Responding to safety incidents in a timely way and seeking to ensure appropriate \
justice in response to death, serious injury or dangerous occurrences \
\'95 Bedding down the new work health and safety laws \
\'95 Continuing to work with other regulators to ensure there are no work health and \
safety gaps where more than one regulator has coverage of a workplace. Comcare Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
192 \
Outcome 1 Expense Statement \
Table 2.1.1 provides an overview of the total expenses for Outcome 1, by program. \
Table 2.1.1: Budgeted Expenses for Outcome 1 \
Note: Departmental appropriation splits and totals are indicative estimates and may change in the course of \
the budget year as government priorities change. \
Contributions to Outcome 1\
Program 1.1: Comcare  \
Program Objective \
The objectives for this program are: \
\'95 Promoting worker health, wellbeing and resilience \
\'95 Preventing harm in federal workplaces \
\'95 Stronger enforcement and justice outcomes \
\'95 National consistency in the implementation of work health and safety laws \
2011-12 2012-13\
Es timated Es timated\
actual expenses\
expenses\
$'000 $'000\
Pr ogr am   1.1:  Com car e\
Revenue from Government\
Ordinary annual services (Appropriation Bill No. 1) 7,424 784\
Revenues from industry sources 8,615 9,216\
Revenues from other independent sources 16,367 13,914\
Total for Program 1.1 32,406 23,914\
Outcome 1 Totals by resource type\
Revenue from Government\
Ordinary annual services (Appropriation Bill No. 1) 7,424 784\
Revenues from industry sources 8,615 9,216\
Revenues from other independent sources 16,367 13,914\
Total expenses for Outcome 1 32,406 23,914\
2011-12 2012-13\
Average Staffing Level (number) 64                  59\
Outcome 1: The protection of the health, safety and \
w  e  lfar e   at  w  or k   of  w  or k  e  r s   cove  r e  d  by  the   Com  car e  \
scheme through education, assurance and enforcement.Comcare Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
193 \
Program 1.1 Expenses \
Comcare is maintaining resourcing to match the Government\'92s expectations about \
the level of regulatory intervention and the need to continue the positive trend in \
injury prevention.  \
Program 1.1 Deliverables \
The program deliverables for this outcome are: \
\'95 Work health and safety programs that respond to workplace risks prioritised to \
reflect intelligence insights  \
\'95 Increased understanding and promotion of the health and wellbeing of workers, \
particularly with regard to their mental wellbeing \
\'95 Scheme employers and front-line managers have increased capability to \
implement work health and safety systems and standards to prevent harm in \
federal workplaces \
\'95 Work health and safety duties and obligations are well understood and applied \
in the context of new federal laws \
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Annual departmental expenses:\
Annual Appropriation 7,424 784 788 780 784\
Expenses not requiring appropriation in\
the Budget year 24,982 23,130 23,706 24,439 25,200\
Total program expenses 32,406 23,914 24,494 25,219 25,984Comcare Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
194 \
Program 1.1 Key Performance Indicators  \
The key performance indicators for this outcome are: \
\'95 worker satisfaction with Comcare\'92s work health and safety support and guidance \
and the impact of Comcare\'92s regulatory interventions \
\'95 the success of prosecutions and civil actions for breaches of the Work Health and \
Safety Act 2011\
\'95 further performance indicators are described in the table below. \
Outcome 2: An early and safe return to work and access to compensation for \
injured workers covered by the Comcare scheme through working in \
partnership with employers to create best practice in rehabilitation and quick \
and accurate management of workers\'92 compensation claims. \
Outcome 2 Strategy  \
Comcare will achieve the outcome through: \
\'95 Supporting workers with injuries from the  time of their initial contact, through \
recovery and return to health, return to work and return to independence  \
\'95 Better understanding the experience and expectations of injured workers  \
\'95 Delivering services that are co-designed with the community Comcare serves \
\'95 Improving the quality, consistency and timeliness of claims decisions through \
better use of information, tools and expertise   \
\'95 Use of targeted interventions and working with the Comcare community, informed \
by improved insight and intelligence \
\'95 Adopting premium strategies that reward and improve scheme performance \
\'95 Ensuring cost recovery and premium models are robust and contemporary to be \
cost effective, accountable and ensure value for money \
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Key Performance Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
Indicators budget target year 1 year 2 year 3\
Number of compensated injury \
fatalities\
3 - - -  -\
Percentage reduction in the \
number of claims involving one \
w eek or more lost time per 1,000 \
FTE employees 25 40 41.2 42.4 43.6Comcare Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
195 \
\'95 Strong balance sheet management to improve financial performance and preserve \
financial integrity \
\'95 Supporting the SRCC to effectively regulate Comcare licensed self-insurers. \
Outcome 2 Expense Statement \
Table 2.1.2 provides an overview of the total expenses for Outcome 2, by program. \
Table 2.1.2: Budgeted Expenses for Outcome 2 \
1\
Refers to special appropriation under the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 1988 s90D\
2\
This revenue from other independent sources relates to non cash movements in workers'\
compensation claims liabilities.\
Note: Departmental appropriation splits and totals are indicative estimates and may change in the\
course of the budget year as government priorities change.\
Contributions to Outcome 2 \
Program 1.2: Comcare \
Program objective \
The objectives of this outcome are to:  \
\'95 Strengthen recovery and support services for workers with an injury to support \
2011-12 2012-13\
Estimated Estimated\
actual expenses\
expenses\
$'000 $'000\
Program 1.2: Comcare\
Revenue from Government\
Ordinary annual services (Appropriation Bill No. 1) 445 424\
Grants received from Portfolio Department\
1\
34,790 39,661\
Revenues from industry sources 5,096 4,556\
Revenues from other independent sources 290,660 377,143\
Revenues from other independent sources\
2 \
72,314 20,768\
Total for Program 1.2 403,305 442,552\
Outcome 2 Totals by resource type\
Revenue from Government\
Ordinary annual services (Appropriation Bill No. 1) 445 424\
Grants received from Portfolio Department\
1\
34,790 39,661\
Revenues from industry sources 5,096 4,556\
Revenues from other independent sources 290,660 377,143\
Revenues from other independent source\
2\
72,314 20,768\
Total expenses for Outcome 2 403,305 442,552\
2011-12 2012-13\
Average Staffing Level (number) 569                515                \
Outcom  e   2:  An  e ar ly  and  s afe   r e tur n  to  w  or k   and  acce s s  \
to  com  pe ns ation  for   injur e d  w  or k e r s   cove r e  d  by  the  \
Comcare scheme through working in partnership with \
employees to create best practice in rehabilitation and \
quick and accurate management of workers' \
compensation claims.Comcare Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
196 \
their return to health, return to work and return to independence \
\'95 Improve injury management practices and return to work performance \
\'95 Improve decision making with decision support tools \
\'95 Strengthen financial and business integrity for sustainability \
\'95 Provide assurance that Comcare scheme employers and determining authorities \
have effective claims and injury management systems in place  \
\'95 Ensure that licensed self-insurers conform with their conditions of licence and \
meet continuous improvement targets. \
Program 1.2 expenses \
The Special Appropriation under s90D of the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation \
Act 1988  (Grants received from Portfolio Departments) relates to workers\'92 \
compensation claims that were accepted prior to the establishment of Comcare \
premium scheme on 1 July 1989. The costs of these claims are funded from the \
Consolidated Revenue Fund. \
Expenses for claims accepted since 1 July 1989 are funded from premium revenue \
paid to Comcare and do not require appropriation.  \
1\
Refers to special appropriation under the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 1988.\
2\
This revenue from other independent sources relates to non cash movements in workers\'92\
compensation claims liabilities.\'a0\'a0\
   \
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Annual administered expenses:\
Annual Appropriation 445 424 427 423 424\
Grants received from Portfolio Departments\
1\
34,790 39,661 24,454 28,599 32,505\
Expenses not requiring appropriation in\
the Budget year 295,756 381,699 398,806 417,885 437,901\
Expenses not requiring appropriation in\
the Budget year\
2 \
72,314 20,768 41,397 42,880 44,417\
Total program expenses 403,305 442,552 465,084 489,787 515,247Comcare Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
197 \
Program 1.2 Components \
\'95 Component 1.2.1 \'96 SRC Act Regulation \
\'95 Component 1.2.2 \'96 Management of Premium Claims \
\'95 Component 1.2.3 \'96 Management of Pre-Premium Claims \
\'95 Component 1.2.4 \'96 Provide support to the Seafarers Safety, Rehabilitation and \
Compensation Authority \
\'b9 Due to movement in workers' compensation claims liabilities valuation. \
\'b2 These amounts were previously received as special appropriation under the Safety, Rehabilitation and \
Compensation Act 1988.\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
1.2.1 - SRC Act Regulation\
Expenses not requiring Appropriation in    11,677 10,383       10,694     11,015     11,346 \
the Budget year\
Total component expenses   10,383 11,677   10,694   11,015   11,346   \
1.2.2 - Management of Premium Claims\
Expenses not requiring Appropriation in  723,908 353,820   364,435   375,368   386,629 \
the Budget year\
1\
Total component expenses 723,908 353,820 364,435 375,368 386,629\
1.2.3 - Management of Pre Premium \
Grants from Portfolio Agencies\
2\
    43,030 43,260       41,775     41,323     40,893 \
Expenses not requiring Appropriation in    10,331 (24,666)  (28,396)  (22,573)  (16,701)  \
the Budget year\
Total component expenses 53,361 18,594 13,379 18,750 24,192\
1.2.4 - Provide support to the Seafarers \
Safety Rehabilitation and Compensation \
Authority\
Annual departmental expenses:\
Annual appropriation 445 424 431 423 424\
Expenses not requiring Appropriation in         594 612         630          649          669 \
the Budget year\
Total component expenses 1,039 1,036 1,061 1,072 1,093\
Total program expenses 789,985 383,833 389,569 406,205 423,259Comcare Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
198 \
Program 1.2 Deliverables \
The program deliverables for this outcome are: \
\'95 Compensation decisions that are consistent, prompt and fair  \
\'95 Better support for Comcare decision makers through improved insight and \
business process reforms in response to trends identified through accurate and \
accessible data  \
\'95 Disputes being resolved quickly, fairly and at a low cost  \
\'95 Expectations of employers\'92 roles and responsibilities as rehabilitation authorities \
are clear and are supported by targeted audits and regulatory activity  \
\'95 Cost base is optimised so that every dollar Comcare spends counts \
Program 1.2 Key Performance Indicators  \
The performance indicators for this outcome are: \
\'95 employers\'92 and injured workers\'92 satisfaction with recovery and support services \
\'95 other key performance indicators described in the table below. \
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Key Performance Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
Indicators budget target year 1 year 2 year 3\
Durable return to w ork rate (i.e. \
the percentage of injured w orkers \
w ith tw o w eeks lost time w ho \
w ere w orking in a paid job 7 to 9 \
months after lodging their claim)\
79 89 90 90 90\
Funding ratio (i.e. percentage of \
premium-related total assets to \
premium-related total liabilities)\
71% 74% 78% 82% 86%\
Percentage of licensees compliant \
w ith licensing obligations \
100 100 100 100 100\
Commonw ealth average premium \
rate 1.41 1.80 1.80 1.80 1.80Comcare Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
199 \
Outcome 3: Access to compensation for people with asbestos-related \
diseases where the Commonwealth has a liability through management of \
claims. \
Outcome 3 Strategy  \
Comcare will achieve this outcome by: \
\'95 Paying appropriate compensation to victims of asbestos-related diseases in a timely \
manner \
\'95 Managing the Commonwealth\'92s asbestos-related disease liabilities at common law \
in accordance with relevant laws and Australian Government policies \
\'95 Strengthening expertise in asbestos claims management through collaboration with \
stakeholder and research initiatives (for example the Asbestos Innovation Fund and \
a national Asbestos Forum) \
Outcome 3 Expenses Statement \
Table 2.1.3 provides an overview of the total expenses for Outcome 3, by program. \
Table 2.1.3: Budgeted Expenses for Outcome 3 \
1\
 Refers to special appropriation Asbestos-related Claims (Management  of Commonwealth Liabilities) Act \
2005. \
2\
 Revenues from other independent sources are the non cash movements in asbestos-related disease claim \
liabilities. \
Note: Departmental appropriation splits and totals are indicative estimates and may change in the course of \
the budget year as government priorities change. \
2011-12 2012-13\
Estimated Estimated\
actual expenses\
expenses\
$'000 $'000\
Program 1.3: Comcare\
Revenue from Government\
Ordinary annual services (Appropriation Bill No. 1) 5,190 5,092\
Grants received from Portfolio Department\
1\
23,270 27,890\
Revenues from other independent sources\
2\
16,812 6,618\
Total for Program 1.3 45,272 39,600\
Outcome 3 Totals by resource type\
Revenue from Government\
Ordinary annual services (Appropriation Bill No. 1) 5,190 5,092\
Grants received from Portfolio Department\
1\
23,270 27,890\
Revenues from other independent sources\
2\
16,812 6,618\
Total expenses for Outcome 3 45,272 39,600\
2011-12 2012-13\
Average Staffing Level (number) 19                  21                  \
Outcome 3: Access to compensation for people with \
as be s tos  -r e late d  dis e as e s   w  he r e   the   Com  m  onw  e  alth \
has a liability through management of claims.Comcare Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
200 \
Contributions to Outcome 3  \
Program 1.3: Comcare \
Program Objective  \
The objectives of this outcome are:  \
\'95 to provide responsive and sensitive support to people suffering from an asbestosrelated disease and their families and work towards the earliest possible resolution \
of their claim \
\'95 to recover contributions to compensation payments from third parties which, in \
turn, should contribute to the funds available for future compensation payments \
to primary claimants who have an asbestos-related disease\
\'95 to implement better approaches to the management of common law asbestosrelated claims. \
Program 1.3 Expenses \
Claims administration and claims settlements costs are expected to remain relatively \
stable in the budget and forward years.  The movement (non-cash) in outstanding \
claims liabilities is expected to reduce over the forward estimates. \
1\
Grants received from Portfolio Departments in relation to special appropriation Asbestos\uc0\u8208 related Claims\
(Management of Commonwealth Liabilities) Act 2005.\
2\
This figure represents the amount for the non\uc0\u8208 cash movement in the asbestos\u8208 related disease claims\
liability.\
   \
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Annual departmental expenses:\
Annual Appropriation 5,190 5,092 5,139 5,080 5,132\
Grants received from Portfolio Departments\
1\
23,270 27,890 31,332 32,877 34,005\
Expenses not requiring appropriation in\
the Budget year \
2\
16,812 6,618 3,116 1,516 316\
Total program expenses 45,272 39,600 39,587 39,473 39,453Comcare Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
201 \
Program 1.3 Deliverables  \
The program deliverables for this outcome are: \
\'95 manage asbestos-related claims liabilities consistently and in accordance with \
relevant legislation or Australian Government policies. \
\'95 collaborate with stakeholders to define a better approach to the management of \
all common law asbestos-related claims \
\'95 examine how this approach could be applied to related federal dust disease \
liabilities \
\'95 support Safe Work Australia to harmonise approaches to safety, statutory and \
common law compensation for workplace dust diseases \
\'95 maintain accurate data and other information about asbestos-related liabilities to \
ensure accurate valuation of future projected liabilities \
\'95 delivery of practical programs and research which raise awareness of asbestos, \
improve its management and removal and provide better treatment and support \
for asbestos-related disease sufferers and their families. \
Program 1.3 Key Performance Indicators  \
The performance indicators for this outcome are: \
\'95 the extent to which Comcare complies with the Commonwealth Legal Service \
Directions, the management objectives  contained in the Asbestos Litigation \
Policy Statement and any Court/Tribunal Rules/Orders in respect of all \
asbestos-related disease claims. \
\'95 the accuracy and completeness of data given to the external actuaries for the \
purpose of the annual actuarial valuation of asbestos-related liabilities. \
\'95 other performance measures described in the table below. \
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Key Performance Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
Indicators budget target year 1 year 2 year 3\
The percentage of primary \
asbestos claims settled by \
Comcare w ithin 180 calendar days\
67 65 65 65 65\
Percentage of the value of \
asbestos claims settlements \
recovered from third parties 8 5 5 5 5Comcare Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
202 \
Section 3: Explanatory tables and budgeted financial \
statements \
Section 3 presents explanatory tables and budgeted financial statements which provide \
a comprehensive snapshot of agency finances for the 2012-13 budget year. It explains \
how budget plans are incorporated into the financial statements and provides further \
details of the reconciliation between  appropriations and program expenses, \
movements in administered funds, special accounts and Government Indigenous \
expenditure. \
3.1 EXPLANATORY TABLES\
3.1.1 Movement of administered funds between years \
Comcare has no movement of administered funds to report. For this reason Table 3.1.1 \
is not presented. \
3.1.2 Special Accounts \
Special accounts provide a means to set aside and record amounts used for specified \
purposes. Special Accounts can be created by a Finance Minister\'92s Determination \
under the FMA Act or under separate enabling legislation. Table 3.1.2 shows the \
expected additions (receipts) and reductions (payments) for the special account for \
which the Seafarers Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Authority is responsible. \
Table 3.1.2: Estimates of Special Account Flows and Balances \
(A) = Administered\
The Special Account was established for the purpose of providing a safety net under \
section 96 of the Seafarers Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 1992 for the \
compensation and rehabilitation of injured seafarers not otherwise covered by an \
employer. \
Opening Closing\
balance Receipts Payments Adjustments balance\
2012-13 2012-13 2012-13 2012-13 2012-13\
2011-12 2011-12 2011-12 2011-12 2011-12\
Outcome $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Seafarers Rehabilitation and \
Compensation (A) Account \
s20  FMA   A c t     1,303 132 132 - 1,303     \
    132 1,303        132        -                1,303    \
Total Special Accounts \
2011-12 Budget estimate 1,303     132        132         -                 1,303     \
Total Special Accounts\
2010-11 estimate actual 1,303    132        132        -                1,303    Comcare Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
203 \
Transactions against this special account reflect: \
\'95 levy collections from shipping operators \
\'95 expenses incurred in the administration of the Seafarers Safety Net Fund and claim \
payments (if any). \
3.1.3 Australian Government Indigenous Expenditure \
Comcare has no Australian Government Indigenous Expenditure to report. For this \
reason Table 3.1.3 is not presented Comcare Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
204 \
3.2 BUDGETED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\
3.2.1 Differences in agency resourcing and financial statements \
There is a significant difference between  the resources shown as being available in \
Table 1.1: Comcare resource statement and  the financial statements, especially in \
relation to the \'91estimate of prior amounts available in 2012-13\'92. These funds relate to \
retained premium funds from Comcare\'92s workers\'92 compensation business, which are \
held to discharge future claims liabilities.  \
The significant financial assets detailed in Table 3.2.2: Budgeted departmental balance \
sheet (appropriations receivable) will fund claim payments over approximately the \
next 30 years. For most other agencies the majority of such resources are usually \
restricted to funding employee entitlements and fixed asset purchases. These resources \
have not been shown in the Comcare resource statement because guidelines for the \
preparation of the Portfolio Budget Statements do not permit it and inclusion of these \
resources in the resource statement would lead to a distortion of Comcare\'92s overall \
resource position.  \
3.2.2 Analysis of budgeted financial statements \
Revenue from independent sources \
Comcare\'92s total independent revenue is estimated to increase from $320.8 million in \
2011-12 to $404.8 million in 2012-13.  \
Comcare\'92s independent actuary increased its mid-year valuation of outstanding claims \
liabilities as at 30 June 2012 for the public sector workers\'92 compensation scheme.   \
Comcare is forecasting that the premium pool required to fund the lifetime cost of \
injuries expected to be incurred in 2012-13 will be $79.6 million higher than the 2011-12 \
premium pool. The forecast increase is in response to the need to return the Comcare \
scheme to a sustainable funding position over time. The drivers of the increased \
valuation in outstanding claims liabilities include model and assumption changes to \
reflect lower \'91exit rates\'92 for long tail claims; economic factors; poor return to work \
outcomes for recent claims; and legislative change.   \
There are many sources of uncertainty in estimating outstanding liabilities in accident \
compensation schemes, particularly for a \'91long tail\'92 scheme such as the Comcare \
workers\'92 compensation scheme.  Assumptions and experience will vary.  Models and \
methods may not match the underlying claims process. Future economic and \
environmental conditions may be different to those assumed. Past claim fluctuations \
may create uncertainty in model parameters. For the Comcare scheme, better insights \
are emerging after twenty years of data to highlight limitations of earlier assumptions.  \
Discount rates will vary to reflect changes in interest rate and inflation assumptions.  \
Changes in scheme experience following major legislative change only emerges after a \
period of time. Comcare Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
205 \
The total amount to be collected through premiums and the premiums for each agency \
will be determined by Comcare in June 2012 after consideration of the actuary\'92s final \
advice which will be based on more recent data. \
Licence fees and regulatory contributions in 2012-13 remain at the 2011-12 levels. This \
reflects Comcare\'92s commitment to exercise fiscal discipline in line with the \
Commonwealth Government\'92s policy. \
A breakdown of revenue from independent  sources for 2011-12 and 2012-13 is as \
follows: \
   2011-12 2012-13 \
Estimated actual Budget estimate \
$'000 $'000 \
Workers compensation premiums               266,692               346,322  \
Interest                 19,796                24,388  \
Licence fees                 13,711                13,772  \
Sale of Goods & Services     \
    Regulatory contributions\
1\
                18,276                18,329  \
    Other                  2,275                  2,036  \
Other non tax revenue                       -                        -   \
Total               320,750               404,847  \
Expenses \
Total expenses are budgeted to decrease from $867.7 million in 2011-12 to \
$447.3 million in 2012-13. \
Major variances between the two years include: \
\'95 a $417.2m reduction in claims expense mainly as a result of expected trend in \
outstanding claims liabilities. A major upward adjustment in claims liabilities is \
expected for 2011-12 based on Comcare\'92s actuary\'92s mid-year valuation report. \
Thereafter, the actuary expects that movements in claims liabilities will be within \
the range of inflation. \
\'95 employee expense is expected to reduce by $7.0m while depreciation and \
amortisation expense will increase by $2.8m due to expected completion of new \
office fitout and major technology projects in 2012-13. Comcare Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
206 \
Claims liabilities \
There are two elements of outstanding workers\'92 compensation claims liabilities: \
\'95 claims with a date of injury before 1 July 1989 \'96 referred to as pre-premium claims \
\'95 claims with a date of injury on or after 1 July 1989 \'96 referred to as premium claims. \
It is expected that pre-premium claims liabilities will continue to decrease over time, \
while premium claims liabilities will remain relatively stable after 30 June 2012. \
The other major component of Other Provisions in the Balance Sheet is an actuarial \
assessment for asbestos-related common law liabilities. Claims liability provisions are \
based on the actuarial valuations. \
Estimates for gross claims liabilities as at 30 June 2012 and each forward year are as \
follows: \
Operating result for 2011-12 \
In the  Portfolio Budget Statements 2011-12, Comcare forecast a $12 million operating \
surplus for 2011-12.  Comcare\'92s projection  was based on the financial position of \
Comcare at 30 June 2011 and took account of advice from its independent actuaries  \
regarding expected workers\'92 compensation claims liabilities and premiums. \
Comcare wrote to the Minister for Finance and Deregulation in October 2011 to advise \
that the increase in valuation of claims liabilities at 30 June 2011 had put Comcare very \
close to reaching the maximum amount of cash reserve retained by the \
Commonwealth under section 90C of the  Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Act \
1988. Comcare advised the Minister for Finance and Deregulation that, if future \
valuations of outstanding claims liabilities were to increase, Comcare would need to \
report an operating deficit. Comcare also noted that this should not be a cause for \
concern about underlying financial sustainability \'96 Comcare can meet its cash outflows \
from revenues and, if needed, its cash reserves. \
The subsequent increase in the actuaries\'92s mid-year valuation of outstanding claims \
liabilities will result in Comcare reporting an operating loss for 2011-12. Approval to \
report the loss has been granted by the Minister for Finance and Deregulation. \
Notwithstanding the loss in 2011-12, Comcare expects to report operating surpluses in \
2012-13 and the forward years. The budgeted surpluses are a result of revised \
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Workers' compensation liabilities\
    Premium 2,007,600 2,081,500 2,152,100 2,225,100 2,300,800   \
    Pre-Premium 381,100    353,700    328,300    305,300    284,400      \
Asbestos-related common law 612,700    619,400    622,400    623,700    623,600      Comcare Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
207 \
premium pricing strategies and are achievable provided that movements in claims \
liabilities stay within the range of inflation as expected. \
3.2.3 Budgeted financial statements tables \
Table 3.2.1 Comprehensive Income Statement (Showing Net Cost of Services) \
(for the period ended 30 June) \
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.\
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
EXPENSES\
Employee benefits 67,449    60,465    61,977    63,528    65,114    \
Supplier expenses 37,918    38,957    34,805    35,675    36,569    \
Depreciation and amortisation 6,279      9,090      7,633      7,633      7,633      \
Claims 756,017  338,835  349,235  364,061  379,380  \
Total expenses 867,663  447,347  453,650  470,897  488,696  \
LESS: \
OWN- SOURCE INCOM E\
Revenue\
Sale of goods and rendering of services 20,551    20,365    20,872    21,394    21,928    \
Fees and fines 13,711    13,772    14,116    14,469    14,832    \
Interest 19,796    24,388    24,941    29,737    34,924    \
Non tax Revenue 89,114    27,368    44,497    44,380    44,717    \
Grants received from Portfolio Department 58,060    67,551    55,786    61,476    66,510    \
Workers Compensation Received 266,692  346,322  362,599  376,740  391,433  \
Total ow n-source revenue 467,924  499,766  522,811  548,196  574,344  \
Gains\
Total gains              - -                            - -              -              \
Total ow n-source income 467,924  499,766  522,811  548,196  574,344  \
Net cost of (contribution by) (399,739) 52,419 69,161 77,299 85,648\
s e  r vice  s\
Revenue from Government 13,059    6,300      6,354      6,283      6,340      \
Surplus (Deficit) (386,680) 58,719    75,515    83,582    91,988    \
Surplus (Deficit) attributable to the \
Australian Government (386,680) 58,719    75,515    83,582    91,988    \
OTHER COM PREHENSIV E INCOM E\
Total other comprehensive income               - -              -              -              -              \
Total comprehensive income \
attributable to the\
Australian Government (386,680) 58,719    75,515    83,582    91,988    Comcare Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
208 \
Table 3.2.2: Budgeted Departmental Balance Sheet (as at 30 June) \
* \'91Equity\'92 is the residual interest in assets after deduction of liabilities.\
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.\
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
ASSETS\
Financial assets\
Cash and cash equivalents 219,584 305,233 402,239 507,503 621,649\
Trade and other receivables 2,393,861 2,450,561 2,520,188 2,585,371 2,568,152\
Other 5,050 5,050 5,050 5,050 5,050\
Total financial assets 2,618,495 2,760,844 2,927,477 3,097,924 3,194,851\
Non-financial assets\
Property, plant and equipment 17,934 28,981 34,469 40,846 45,343\
Intangibles 9,901 8,250 5,140 1,880 500\
Other 1,075 1,075 1,075 1,075 1,075\
Total non-financial assets 28,910 38,306 40,684 43,801 46,918\
Assets held for sale -              -              -              -              -              \
Total assets 2,647,405 2,799,150 2,968,161 3,141,725 3,241,769\
LIABILITIES\
Payables\
Suppliers 6,930 6,930 6,930 6,930 6,930\
Other 9,225 9,225 9,225 9,225 9,225\
Total payables 16,155 16,155 16,155 16,155 16,155\
Provisions\
Employee provisions 11,582 11,026 10,562 10,058 9,514\
Other 2,990,540 3,084,122 3,178,082 3,268,568 3,277,168\
Total provisions 3,002,122 3,095,148 3,188,644 3,278,626 3,286,682\
Liabilities included in disposal\
groups held for sale - - - - -\
Total liabilities 3,018,277 3,111,303 3,204,799 3,294,781 3,302,837\
Ne t  as s e ts  (370,872) (312,153) (236,638) (153,056) (61,068)   \
EQUIT Y*\
Par e nt  e ntity  inte r e s t\
Contributed equity 7,717 7,717 7,717 7,717 7,717\
Reserves 354 354 354 354 354\
Retained surplus\
(accumulated deficit) (378,943) (320,224) (244,709) (161,127) (69,139)   \
Total parent entity interest (312,153) (370,872) (236,638) (153,056) (61,068)   \
Total Equity (370,872) (312,153) (236,638) (153,056) (61,068)   Comcare Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
209 \
Table 3.2.3: Departmental Statement of Changes in Equity \'97 summary of \
movement (Budget year 2012-13) \
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis. \
Retained Asset Other Contributed Total\
earnings revaluation reserves equity/ equity\
reserve capital\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Opening balance as at 1 July 2012\
Balance carried forw ard from (378,943)  354 - 7,717 (370,872)\
previous period\
Adjusted opening balance  (378,943) 354 - 7,717 (370,872)\
Comprehensive income\
Sub-total comprehensive income - - - - -\
Surplus (deficit) for the period 58,719 - - - 58,719\
Total comprehensive income \
recognised directly in equity\
58,719 - - - 58,719\
Transactions with owners\
Contributions by ow ners\
Contribution/(Distribution) of Equity - - - - -\
Sub-total transactions with owners - - - - -\
Estimated closing balance\
as at 30 June 2013  (320,224) 354 - 7,717 (312,153)Comcare Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
210 \
Table 3.2.4: Budgeted Departmental Statement of Cash Flows \
(for the period ended 30 June) \
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.\
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
OPERATING ACTIVITIES\
Cas h  r e ce ive d\
Goods and services 36,276 36,105 37,019 37,952 38,912\
Annual Appropriations 14,403 6,300 6,354 6,283 6,340\
Grants received from Portfolio \
Department\
31,526 34,789 32,277 39,597 34,346\
Interest 19,796 24,388 24,941 29,737 34,924\
Other 305,968 376,395 387,621 404,460 415,654\
Tota l   ca sh  r ecei ved 407,969 477,977 488,212 518,029 530,176\
Cas h  us e d\
Employees 67,294 61,022 62,443 64,031 65,659\
Suppliers 41,411 42,551 38,509 39,440 40,283\
Net GST paid 23,754 25,018 24,969 24,968 22,660\
Other 252,023 245,251 255,274 273,576 276,678\
Total cash used 384,482 373,842 381,195 402,015 405,280\
Net cash from (used by)\
operating activities 23,487     104,135 107,017 116,014 124,896\
INVESTING ACTIVITIES\
Cas h  r e ce ive d\
Tota l   ca sh  r ecei ved - - - - -\
Cas h  us e d\
Purchase of property, plant \
and equipment 22,018 18,486 10,011 10,750 10,750\
Total cash used 22,018 18,486 10,011 10,750 10,750\
Net cash from (used by)  \
inve s ting  activitie s\
FINANCING ACTIVITIES\
Cas h  r e ce ive d\
Other 7,112 -              - - -\
Tota l   ca sh  r ecei ved 7,112 -               - - -\
Cas h  us e d\
Total cash used - - - - -\
Net cash from (used by)  \
financing activities\
Ne  t  incr e as e   (de  cr e as  e )\
in cash held 8,581       85,649 97,006 105,264 114,146   \
Cash and cash equivalents at the\
beginning of the reporting period 211,003 219,584 305,233 402,239 507,503\
Cas h  and  cas h  e quivale nts   at  the  \
end of the reporting period 219,584 305,233 402,239 507,503 621,649Comcare Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
211 \
Table 3.2.5: Departmental Capital Budget Statement \
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.\
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
CAPITAL APPROPRIATIONS\
Equity injections - Bill No. 2 7,112    -           -           -             -              \
Total capital appropriations 7,112               - -           -             -              \
Total new capital appropriations\
Represented by:\
Purchase of non-financial assets 7,112    -           -           -             -              \
Total Items 7,112    -                      - -             -              \
PURCHASE OF NON- FINANCIAL\
ASSETS\
Funded by capital appropriations 7,112    -           -           -             -              \
Funded internally from\
departmental resources\
1\
    18,486 14,906    10,011    10,750    10,750     \
TOTAL 22,018  18,486  10,011  10,750  10,750     \
RECONCILIATION OF CASH\
USED TO ACQUIRE ASSETS\
TO ASSET MOVEMENT TABLE\
Total purchases 22,018  18,486  10,011  10,750  10,750     \
Total cash used to\
acquir e   as s e ts  22,018  18,486  10,011  10,750  10,750     \
1\
Includes the follow ing sources of funding:\
   - annual and prior year appropriations\
   - donations and contributions\
   - gifts\
   - internally developed assets\
   - proceeds from the sale of assetsComcare Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
212 \
Table 3.2.6: Statement of Asset Movements (2012-13) \
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.\
Othe r prope rty,  In tangib les To ta l\
plan t and\
equipmen t\
$ '000 $ '000 $ '000\
As a t 1 July 2 0 12\
Gross book va lue 32 ,533 20,466 52 ,999\
Accumu la ted  dep rec iation/amortisa tion \
and   impa irmen t  (14,599 )                    (10 ,5 6 5 )             (2 5 ,16 4 )           \
O p e n in g   n e t   b o o k   b a la n c e  17 , 9 3 4  9 , 9 0 1  2 7 , 8 3 5\
C A P  IT  A  L   A  S  S  ET   A D  D IT  IO  N  S\
Es t ima  t e  d   e  xp e  n d it u re   o n\
n e w  o r  re p la c e me n t   a sse t s\
By pu rchase  o r  in te rna lly deve loped 16,877 1,609 18 ,486\
T o t a  l  a  d d it io n s 16 , 8 7 7  1, 6 0 9  18 , 4 8 6\
Othe r move me nts\
Deprec ia tion/amo rtisa tion  expense  (5 ,830 )                      (3 ,2 6 0 )               (9 ,0 9 0 )             \
Disposals  -  Non cash  conside ration  -                                   -                            -                          \
A s   a t   3 0   Ju n e   2 0 13\
Gross book va lue 49,410                      2 2 ,0 7 5              7 1,4 8 5             \
Accumu la ted  dep rec iation/amortisa tion  (20,429 )                   (13 ,8 2 5 )             (3 4 ,2 5 4 )          \
and   impa irmen t\
Disposals  -  Non cash  conside ration  -                                   -                            -                          \
C lo s in g   n e  t   b o o k   b a  la  n c  e  2  8  ,  9  8  1  8  ,  2  5  0       3 7 ,2 3 1    \
1\
 "Appropriation equity" refers to equity injections or Administered Assets and Liabilities appropriations provided through\
Appropriation Bill (No.2) 2011-12, including CDABs.\
2\
 "Appropriation ordinary annual services" refers to funding provided through Appropriation Bill (No.1) 2011-12 for \
depreciation / amortisation expenses, DCBs / ACBs or other operational expenses.\
3\
 Proceeds may be returned to the OPA.Comcare Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
213 \
Table 3.2.7: Schedule of Budgeted Income and Expenses Administered on behalf \
of Government (for the period ended 30 June) \
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.\
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
INCOME ADMINISTERED ON\
BEHALF OF GOV ERNM ENT\
Revenue\
Taxation revenue\
Total taxation revenue - - - - -\
Non-taxation revenue\
Other sources of non-taxation 132 132 132 132 132\
revenues\
Total non-taxation revenue 132 132 132 132 132\
Total  r e ve nue s   adm  inis te r e d\
on behalf of Government 132 132 132 132 132\
Gains\
Total  gains   adm  inis te r e d\
on behalf of Government - - - - -\
Total  incom  e   adm  inis te r e d\
on behalf of Government 132 132 132 132 132\
EXPENSES ADMINISTERED ON\
BEHALF OF GOV ERNM ENT\
Supplier expenses 132 132 132 132 132\
Total  e xpe ns e s   adm  inis te r e d\
on behalf of Government 132 132 132 132 132Comcare Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
214 \
Table 3.2.8: Schedule of Budgeted Assets and Liabilities Administered on behalf \
of Government (as at 30 June) \
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.\
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
ASSETS ADMINISTERED ON \
BEHALF OF GOV ERNM ENT\
Financial  as s e ts\
Cash and cash equivalents  -  -  -  -  -\
Receivables 1,312 1,312 1,312 1,312 1,312\
Total financial assets 1,312 1,312 1,312 1,312 1,312\
Non-financial assets\
Total non-financial assets - - - - -\
Total  as s e ts   adm  inis te r e d \
on behalf of Government 1,312 1,312 1,312 1,312 1,312\
LIABILITIES ADMINISTERED ON \
BEHALF OF GOV ERNM ENT\
Payables\
Suppliers  - - - - -\
Other 115 115 115 115 115\
Total payables 115 115 115 115 115\
Provisions\
Total provisions - - - - -\
Liabilities included in disposal\
groups held for sale - - - - -\
Total  liabilitie s   adm  inis te r e d\
on behalf of Government 115 115 115 115 115Comcare Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
215 \
Table 3.2.9: Schedule of Budgeted Administered Cash Flows \
(for the period ended 30 June) \
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis. \
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
OPERATING ACTIVITIES\
Cas h  r e  ce ive d\
Other 132 132 132 132 132\
Total cash received 132 132 132 132 132\
Cas h  us e d\
Suppliers 132 132 132 132 132\
Total cash used 132 132 132 132 132\
Net cash from (used by) \
operating activities - - - -  -\
INVESTING ACTIVITIES\
Cas h  r e  ce ive d\
Total cash received - - - -  -\
Cas h  us e d\
Total cash used - - - -  -\
Net cash from (used by) \
investing activities - - - -  -\
FINANCING ACTIVITIES\
Cas h  r e  ce ive d\
Total cash received - - - -  -\
Cas h  us e d\
Total cash used - - - -  -\
Net cash from (used by) \
financing activities - - - -  -\
Net increase (decrease) in - - - -  -\
 cash held\
Cash and cash equivalents at\
beginning of reporting period - - - -  -\
Cash from Official Public Account for:\
- Special Accounts 132 132 132 132 132\
Cash to Official Public Account for:\
- Special Accounts 132 132 132 132 132\
Cas h  and  cas  h  e quivale  nts   at  e nd\
of reporting period - - - -  -Comcare Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
216 \
Table 3.2.10: Schedule of Administered Capital Budget \
Comcare has no administered capital purchases to report. For this reason Table 3.2.10 \
is not presented. \
Table 3.2.11: Schedule of Asset Movements \'97 Administered \
Comcare has no administered non financial  assets to report. For this reason Table \
3.2.11 is not presented. \
3.2.4 Notes to the financial statements \
Accounting policy \
The budgeted financial statements have  been prepared in accordance with the \
requirements of the Finance Minister\'92s Orders issued by the Minister for Finance and \
Deregulation.  \
The statements have been prepared: \
\'95 on an accrual accounting basis \
\'95 in compliance with Australian Accounting Standards and Australian Equivalents to \
International Financial Reporting Standards (AEIFRS) and other authoritative \
pronouncements of the Australian Accounting Standards Boards and the \
Consensus Views of the Urgent Issues Group \
\'95 having regard to Statements of Accounting Concepts. \
Agency items \
Agency assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are those items that are controlled by \
Comcare including: \
\'95 computers, plant and equipment used in providing goods and services \
\'95 liabilities for outstanding workers\'92 compensation claims \
\'95 liabilities for asbestos-related common law claims \
\'95 liabilities for employee entitlements \
\'95 revenues from appropriations for resources used in providing goods and services \
\'95 other revenues which largely consist of workers\'92 compensation premiums collected \
from other Commonwealth Government agencies \
\'95 employee expenses and other administrative expenses incurred in providing goods \
and services. Comcare Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
217 \
Administered assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are those items which are \
controlled by the Government and managed or overseen by the department or agency \
on behalf of the Government. For the Seacare Authority these are levies collected \
under the Seafarers Rehabilitation and Compensation Levy Collection Act 1992.\
Agency revenue from government \
Comcare receives annual appropriations for its regulatory activities. Comcare also \
receives two types of special appropriations through its portfolio department.  Grants \
received from Portfolio Department represent cash appropriation for the payment of \
claims during the financial year. Non Tax Revenue is a non cash appropriation \
representing the increase or decrease in claims liabilities which will be payable in \
future years. Only Grants received from Portfolio Department is included in the \
relevant Appropriation Bill under the category Agency/CAC receipts. As Table 1.1 \
Comcare resource statement is required to be consistent with the Appropriation Bill, \
the non cash component has been excluded from the resource statement.  \
Noting the above, the total departmental cash appropriation (both annual and grants \
received from portfolio department) from Government in 2012-13 is estimated at $73.9 \
million (2011-12 $71.1 million). The non cash appropriation is $27.4 million (2011-12 \
$89.1 million) reflecting an expected increase in claim liabilities during the year based \
on actuarial assessment. \
Agency revenue from other sources \
Revenue from goods and services is recognised upon the delivery of the goods and \
services to the customers. Premium revenue is recognised as it is owned and controlled \
by Comcare. \
Reconciliation betw een 2011-12 2012-13\
Age ncy  Re s our ce   State m  e nt  and  Incom  e   Re vis e d  Budge t\
State m  e nt  Budge t\
$'000 $'000\
Age ncy  Re s our ce   State m  e nt\
Annual Appropriation              14,403             6,300 \
Grants received from Portfolio Department              58,060           67,551 \
Income Statement\
Revenue from Government              13,059             6,300 \
Grants received from Portfolio Department              58,060           67,551 \
Non Tax Revenue              89,114           27,368 \
             (87,770)        (27,368)\
less 2010-11 budget measure annual appropriation               (1,344)\
Government funding for non-cash movement in liabilities              89,114           27,368 \
Total                        -                    - Comcare Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
218 \
Agency expenses - employees \
This item represents employee expenses incurred including the net increase in \
entitlements to employees for services rendered in the financial year. \
Agency expenses \'96 depreciation and amortisation \
Property, plant and equipment assets are  depreciated to their estimated residual \
values over their estimated useful lives to Comcare using, in all cases, the straight-line \
method of depreciation. The estimated useful life of these assets is between three and \
ten years. \
Leasehold improvements are amortised on a straight-line basis over the lesser of the \
estimated useful life of the improvements or the unexpired period of the lease. \
Intangibles are amortised over periods between three and five years. \
Agency expenses- other costs of providing goods and services \
This item represents purchases of goods and services from suppliers. \
Agency expenses - other \
This item represents workers\'92 compensation claims payments including net \
movements in outstanding workers\'92 compensation claims liabilities and common law \
settlements for asbestos-related compensation cases. \
Accounting policy \
The premium scheme covers employees of Commonwealth Government agencies and \
the ACT Government covered by the  Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 1988 \
(SRC Act) for injuries and illnesses sustained on or after 1 July 1989. A methodology \
developed by an independent actuary is used to calculate premiums to cover fully the \
liabilities expected to be incurred by the scheme.\
Premiums do not cover any liabilities for injuries or illness sustained prior to \
1 July 1989. These liabilities are funded by Parliamentary appropriation and are \
referred to as \'91pre-premium\'92 liabilities. \
Section 90A (1) of the SRC Act requires that premiums collected for financial years \
prior to 1 July 2002 by Comcare be paid into the Consolidated Revenue Fund. The SRC \
Act does not presently provide for those  premium funds (or the notional interest \
accrued) to be brought to account as assets of Comcare. Accordingly, these financial \
statements do not reflect these amounts except insofar as they are required to meet \
existing outstanding claims obligations. This amount is recognised as an appropriation \
receivable in the Balance Sheet. Comcare Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
219 \
Agency assets and liabilities \'96 provisions and payables  \
Provision is made for: \
\'95 Comcare\'92s liability for employee entitlements arising from services rendered by \
employees to balance date \
\'95 an estimate for asbestos-related common law liabilities \
\'95 an estimate for outstanding workers compensation claims liabilities. \
The liability for employee entitlements encompasses unpaid annual and long service \
leave. No provision is made for sick leave. The liability for leave expected to be settled \
within 12 months has been measured  at its nominal amount. Other employee \
entitlements payable later than one year have been measured at the present value of \
the estimated future cash outflows to be made for those entitlements. Attrition rates \
and pay rises through promotion and wage/salary agreements have been taken into \
account. \
The financial statements include, as provisions, an estimate for outstanding workers \
compensation claims and asbestos-related common law liabilities.  \
These estimates have been prepared by independent actuaries. They are based on \
analysis of the historical development of the relevant claims experience, with \
allowances for future claim escalation and administration expenses, and are \
discounted to a present value to allow for the time value of money. Outstanding claims \
liabilities are calculated in accordance with the Australian Accounting Standards \
Board standard AASB 137 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.\
The estimates of outstanding liabilities have been determined as central estimate of the \
liabilities. The central estimate refers to an unbiased estimate of the mean, or expected \
value, of the liability. There is approximately a 50/50 chance that when the forecast \
claim liabilities have been finally discharged they will prove to be either higher or \
lower than the central estimate.   \
Agency assets and liabilities \'96 financial assets - cash \
Cash includes deposits at call and term deposits with a bank or financial institution. Comcare Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
220 \
Agency assets and liabilities \'96 financial assets - receivables \
Receivables represent amounts owing to Comcare for goods and services that have \
been provided to external parties, together with an estimate of appropriations required \
to meet outstanding workers compensation claims liabilities. \
Agency assets and liabilities \'96 financial assets - other \
This item represents an estimate for prepayments.Agency assets and liabilities \'96 \
non-financial assets \
These items represent future economic benefits that Comcare will consume in \
producing outputs. The reported value represents the fair value of assets less \
depreciation incurred to date in using that asset. \
Property, plant and equipment are brought to account at cost, except for purchases \
costing less than $3,000 which are expensed in the year of acquisition. Leasehold assets \
include an amount for the estimated value of restoring leased property to its pre-lease \
standard at the expiration of the lease. 221 \
FAIR WORK AUSTRALIA\
(POSITIONAL ONLY) 223 \
FAIR WORK AUSTRALIA\
Section 1: Agency overview and resources ........................................................... 225\
1.1 Strategic Direction Statement ....................................................................... 225\
1.2 Agency Resource Statement ........................................................................ 227\
1.3 Budget Measures .......................................................................................... 228 \
Section 2: Outcomes and planned performance ................................................... 229\
2.1 Outcomes and performance information ...................................................... 229\
Section 3: Explanatory tables and budgeted financial statements ..................... 234\
3.1 Explanatory tables ........................................................................................ 234 \
3.2 Budgeted Financial Statements .................................................................... 235 Fair Work Australia Budget Statements \'96 Overview & resources \
225 \
FAIR WORK AUSTRALIA\
Section 1: Agency overview and resources \
1.1 STRATEGIC DIRECTION STATEMENT\
Fair Work Australia (FWA) was established by the Fair Work Act 2009 and commenced \
operations on 1 July 2009. FWA was one of two institutions established to administer \
the provisions of the Fair Work Act 2009 (the Act) and to provide a balanced framework \
for cooperative and productive workplace relations that promote economic prosperity \
and social inclusion. The Act also establishes the Office of the Fair Work Ombudsman \
to undertake compliance, education and advice functions.  \
FWA consists of a President, Deputy Presidents, Commissioners and Minimum Wage \
Panel members. FWA also has a General  Manager and administrative staff who \
exercise powers and functions under the Act. \
FWA has the power to vary awards,  make minimum wage orders, approve \
agreements, resolve workplace and other disputes, determine unfair dismissal claims \
and  make  orders  in  relation  to  such  things  as  good  faith  bargaining  and  industrial \
action.  FWA performs its functions and exercises its powers in a manner that is: \
\'95 efficient \
\'95 adequately serves the needs of employers and employee \
\'95 fair and just \
\'95 quick, informal and avoids unnecessary technicalities \
\'95 open and transparent \
\'95 promotes harmonious and cooperative workplace relations. \
FWA\'92s newly developed strategic plan has the overarching strategic goal of meeting \
FWA\'92s statutory functions effectively through independent, respected, efficient \
workplace relations services.  \
The strategy has four goals: \
\'95 provide effective service delivery and support to Members of FWA; the Fair Work \
Legislation \
\'95 provide effective service delivery and assistance to clients of FWA;  Fair Work Australia Budget Statements \'96 Overview & resources \
226 \
\'95 provide effective support to the General Manager to meet functions under the Fair \
Work Act and the Registered Organisations Act;  \
\'95 be an effective, high performing, accountable APS agency. \
The Plan was launched in April 2012 and will continue into 2012-13.  \
FWA will continue work with the respective state industrial commissions to \
implement the national workplace relations system in accordance with the bi-lateral \
arrangements. \
A memorandum of understanding between FWA and FWO is in place to aid the \
seamless delivery of services to clients regardless of whether the initial point of contact \
is with FWA or FWO. The two agencies will continue to work cooperatively to meet \
this objective.  \
A research program continues to support the minimum wage function with research \
projects to be completed or to be commissioned in 2012-13. \
Processes for the management of lodgements particularly unfair dismissals and \
approval of agreements will continue to be reviewed and refined.  Fair Work Australia Budget Statements \'96 Overview & resources \
227 \
1.2 AGENCY RESOURCE STATEMENT\
Table 1.1 shows the total resources from all sources. The table summarises how \
resources will be applied by outcome and by administered and departmental \
classification. \
Table 1.1: Fair Work Australia Resource Statement \'97 Budget Estimates for \
2012-13 as at Budget May 2011 \
Estimate Proposed Total Actual\
of prior +\
at Budget\
=\
estimate available\
year amounts appropriation\
available in\
2012-13 2012-13 2012-13 2011-12\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Ordinary annual services\
1\
Departmental appropriation\
Prior year departmental appropriation\
2\
Departmental appropriation\
3\
          59,755      74,549    134,304 75,161         \
s31 Relevant agency receipts\
4\
                    -             99             99 99                \
Total          59,755       74,648     134,403          75,260\
Total ordinary annual services   A        74,648 59,755       134,403          75,260\
Othe  r   s  e  r vice  s\
6\
Adm  inis te r e d  e xpe ns e s\
Departmental non-operating\
Equity injections 10,416                        -                -                    -\
Total 10,416                        -                -                    -\
Total other services B 10,416                        -                -                    -\
Total available annual \
appropriations 70,171        74,648   134,403 75,260         \
Special appropriations\
Special appropriations limited\
 by criteria/entitlement                 - -                            -                    -\
Total special appropriations C -                                 -                -                    -\
Total appropriations excluding\
 Special Accounts 70,171        74,549   134,403 75,260         \
Special Accounts\
Special Accounts -                                  -               - -                   \
Total Special Account D                   - -               -               -                   \
Total Recsourcing \
A +B+C+D          74,549 70,171     134,403   75,260         \
Less appropriations draw n from\
annual or special appropriations above -                 -             -              -                   \
and credited to special accounts -                   -               -               -                   \
and/or CAC Act bodies through -                   -               -               -                   \
annual appropriations -                   -               -               -                   \
Total net resourcing for FWA 70,171          74,549     134,403   75,260         Fair Work Australia Budget Statements \'96 Overview & resources \
228 \
1.3 BUDGET MEASURES\
Budget measures relating to Fair Work Australia are detailed in Budget Paper No. 2 \
and are summarised below.  \
Table 1.2: Agency 2012-13 Budget Measures \
Prepared on a Government Finance Statistics (fiscal) basis.\
Program 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Expense measures \
Application of Efficiency Dividend \
Departmental expenses -           (1,921)  (1,891)  (1,914)  (1,933)  \
Total -           (1,921)  (1,891)  (1,914)  (1,933)  \
Total expense measures\
Departmental -           (1,921)  (1,891)  (1,914)  (1,933)  \
Total -           (1,921)  (1,891)  (1,914)  (1,933)  \
Capital measures \
Application of Efficiency Dividend \
Departmental capital -           (281)     (88)       (628)     (648)     \
Total -           (281)     (88)       (628)     (648)     \
Total capital measures\
Departmental -           (281)     (88)       (628)     (648)     \
Total -           (281)     (88)       (628)     (648)     Fair Work Australia Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
229 \
Section 2: Outcomes and planned performance \
2.1 OUTCOMES AND PERFORMANCE INFORMATION\
Government outcomes are the intended results, impacts or consequences of actions by \
the Government on the Australian community. Commonwealth programs are the \
primary vehicle by which government agencies achieve the intended results of their \
outcome statements. Agencies are required to identify the programs which contribute \
to Government outcomes over the Budget and forward years. \
Each outcome is described below together with its related programs, specifying the \
performance indicators and targets used to assess and monitor the performance of Fair \
Work Australia in achieving Government outcomes. \
Outcome 1: Simple, fair and flexible workplace relations for employees and \
employers through the exercise of powers to set and vary minimum wages \
and modern awards, facilitate collective bargaining, approve agreements and \
deal with disputes. \
Outcome 1 Strategy \
FWA has a single planned outcome. Key strategies toward achieving the Fair Work \
Australia outcome in 2012-13 are: \
\'95 Provide effective assistance to Fair Work Australia Members to meet the objects of \
the Fair Work Act 2009. \
\'95 Implement processes and systems to support the exercise of new and/or changed \
powers under the Fair Work Act 2009. \
\'95 Develop and provide information to promote public understanding of the functions \
and activities of Fair Work Australia. \
\'95 Undertake research activities to support minimum wage process. \
\'95 Carry out regulatory functions under the  Fair Work Act 2009  and Fair Work \
(Registered Organisations) Act 2009. Fair Work Australia Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
230 \
Outcome Expense Statement \
Table 2.1 provides an overview of the total expenses for Outcome 1, by program. \
Table 2.1: Budgeted Expenses and Resources for Outcome 1 \
2011-12 2012-13\
Estimated Estimated\
actual expenses\
expenses\
disputes. $'000 $'000\
Program 1.1: Other Departmental FWA\
Departmental expenses\
Departmental appropriation \
1\
72,947 74,549\
Expenses not requiring appropriation in the Budget year \
2\
6,225 1,996\
Total for Program 1.1 79,172 76,545\
Outcome 1 Totals by appropriation type\
Departmental expenses\
Departmental appropriation \
1\
72,947 74,549\
Expenses not requiring appropriation in the Budget year \
2\
6,225 1,996\
Total expenses for Outcome 1 79,172 76,545\
2011-12 2012-13\
Average Staffing Level (number) 343               343\
1  \
Departmental Appropria tion comb ines  "Ord inary annual se rvices  (Appropria tion Bill No. 1)" and  "Revenue  from \
independent sources  (s31)"  .\
2 \
Expenses not  requiring appropria tion  in   the Budget year  is made up of Deprec ia tion Expense, Amortisa tion \
Expense, Makegood Expense, Audit Fees.\
Outcome 1: Simple, fair and flexible workplace relations for \
employees and employers through the excise of powers to set \
and vary minimum w ages and modern aw ards, facilitate \
collective bargaining, approve agreements and deal w ithFair Work Australia Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
231 \
Contributions to Outcome 1 \
Program 1: Dispute resolution, minimum wages, orders and approval of \
agreements. \
Program 1 objective \
To exercise powers under the Fair Work Act 2009: \
\'95 in accordance with the objects of the Act\
\'95 in a manner that is efficient, fair and just, quick, informal and avoids unnecessary \
technicalities, open and transparent and promotes harmonious and cooperative \
workplace relations. \
Linked to:   \
Fair Work Australia and the Office of the Fair Work Ombudsman are created under \
the  Fair Work Act 2009. Fair Work Australia and the Office of the Fair Work \
Ombudsman have cooperative approaches to the delivery of services to employees, \
employers and organisations.\
Program 1 expenses \
The functions of Fair Work Australia are prescribed by legislation and while a \
number of the functions of Fair Work Australia have previously been undertaken by \
other institutions, the processes implemented by Fair Work Australia may be new \
and/or changed under the Fair Work Act 2009.  \
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Annual departmental expenses:\
Departmental item 72,947 74,549 73,348 74,272 75,023\
Expenses not requiring appropriation in\
the Budget year \
1\
6,225 1,996 1,997 1,997          97 \
Total  pr ogr am   e xpe ns e s   79,172  76,545  75,345  76,269  75,120\
1\
 Expenses not requiring appropriation in the Budget year is made up of Depreciation Expense and \
Amortisation Expense. Fair Work Australia Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
232 \
Program 1 Deliverables   \
The deliverables for Fair Work Australia are: \
\'95 dispute resolution - unfair dismissal application processing \
\'95 minimum wage decisions \
\'95 orders relating to industrial action \
\'95 processes relating to modern awards \
\'95 approval of agreements\
\'95 General Manager\'92s Legislative reporting requirements\
\'95 Issuing Permits\
Program 1 Key Performance Indicators   \
The Key Performance Indicators for Fair Work Australia are: \
\'95 Improve or maintain the time elapsed from lodging applications to finalising \
conciliations in unfair dismissal applications. \
\'95 Annual wage review to be completed to enable an operative date of 1 July. \
\'95 Improve or maintain the time taken to list applications relating to industrial \
action. \
\'95 Improve or maintain the agreement approval time \
\'95 Timely General Manager\'92s reports \
\'95 Timely processing of permits \
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
Deliverables budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
Dispute resolution, minimum w age decision, 79,172 76,545     75,345 76,269 75,120\
orders and approval of agreementsFair Work Australia Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
233 \
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Key Performance Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
Indicators budget target year 1 year 2 year 3\
Improve or maintain the time elapsed from \
lodging applications to finalising conciliations in \
unfair dismissal applications.*\
34 days 34 days 34 days 34 days 34 days\
Completion of annual w age review . By June 11 By June 12 By June 13 By June 14 By June 15\
Improve or maintain the time taken to list \
applications relating to industrial action.* 3 days 3 days 3 days 3 days 3 days\
Improve or maintain the agreement approval 32 days 32 days 32 days 32 days 32 days\
Issuing of permits 28 days 28 days 28 days 28 days 28 days\
* measured as the medium number of daysFair Work Australia Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
234 \
Section 3: Explanatory tables and budgeted financial \
statements \
Section 3 presents explanatory tables and budgeted financial statements which provide \
a comprehensive snapshot of agency finances for the 2011-12 budget year. It explains \
how budget plans are incorporated into the financial statements and provides further \
details of the reconciliation between  appropriations and program expenses, \
movements in administered funds, special accounts and government indigenous \
expenditure. \
3.1 EXPLANATORY TABLES\
3.1.1 Movement of administered funds between years \
Fair Work Australia has no Administered funds. For this reason Table 3.1.1 is not \
presented.  \
3.1.2 Special Accounts \
Fair Work Australia has no Special Accounts. For this reason Table 3.1.2 is not \
presented. \
3.1.3 Australian Government Indigenous Expenditure \
The 2011-12 Australian Government Indigenous Statement is not applicable because \
Fair Work Australia has no indigenous specific expenses. For this reason Table 3.1.3 is \
not presented. Fair Work Australia Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
235 \
3.2 BUDGETED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\
3.2.1 Differences in agency resourcing and financial statements \
Fair Work Australia has nil difference to report. \
3.2.2 Analysis of budgeted financial statements \
Total revenue for 2012-13 is estimated to be $74.6 million. \
Total expenses for 2012-13 are estimated to be $76.5 million, which includes $1.7 \
million for depreciation and amortisation.   \
Total assets for 2012-13 are estimated to be $74.5 million, comprising $57.5 million in \
financial assets and $17 million in non-financial assets.  \
Total liabilities for 2012-13 are estimated to be $24.8 million, with the primary liabilities \
being accrued employee entitlements which total $15.4 million.  \
Fair Work Australia is budgeting for a nil change in the bank account in 2012-13 and \
for the three forward years. \
Total equity for 2012-13 is estimated to be $49.7 million which consists of Accumulated \
results which totals $1.9 million and Contributed equity/capital which totals $47.8 \
million.  Fair Work Australia Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
236 \
3.2.2 Budgeted financial statements tables \
Table 3.2.1: Comprehensive Income Statement (Showing Net Cost of Services) \
(for the period ended 30 June) \
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
EXPENSES\
Employee benefits 50,418    47,819    46,047    47,080    48,522    \
Suppliers 27,008    27,004    27,576    27,467    26,598    \
Depreciation and amortisation 1,746      1,722* 1,722* 1,722* -*\
Total expenses 79,172    76,545    75,345    76,269    75,120    \
LESS: \
OWN- SOURCE INCOM E\
Own-source revenue\
Other 99           99           99           99                        -\
Total own-source revenue 99           99           99           99                        -\
Gains\
Other 80                    176 175         176         97           \
Total gains 80           175         176         176         97           \
Total ow n-source income 179         274         275         275         97           \
Net cost of (contribution by)\
services (78,993)  (76,271)* (75,070)* (75,994)* (75,023)*\
Revenue from Government 72,947    74,549    73,348    74,272    75,023    \
Surplus (Deficit) attributable to\
 the Australian Government (6,046)    (1,722)* (1,722)* (1,722)* -*\
OTHER COM PREHENSIV E INCOM E\
Changes in asset revaluation surplus -                          - -             -             -             \
Total other comprehensive income              -             -             - -             -             \
Total comprehensive income (6,046)    (1,722)* (1,722)* (1,722)* -*\
Total comprehensive income \
 attributable to the Australian \
Government (6,046)    (1,722)* (1,722)* (1,722)* -*Fair Work Australia Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
237 \
Table 3.2.1: Comprehensive Income Statement (Showing Net Cost of Services) \
(for the period ended 30 June) (continued) \
Note: Impact of Net Cash Apppropriation Arrangements\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Total Comprehensive Income \
(los s )  le s s   de pr e ciation/am  or tis ation\
expenses previously funded through\
revenue appropriations. (4,300)    -             -             -             -             \
plus depreciation/amortisation expenses\
previously funded through revenue\
appropriations\
1\
    (1,722) (1,746)    (1,722)    (1,722)    -             \
Total Comprehensive Income \
(loss) - as per the Statement of\
Comprehensive Income     (6,046)     (1,722)     (1,722)     (1,722)              - \
1 \
From 2010-11, the Government introduced net cash appropriation arrangements w here Bill 1 revenue \
appropriations for the depreciation/amortisation expenses of FMA Act agencies w ere replaced w ith a \
separate capital budget (the Departmental Capital Budget, or DCB) provided through Bill 1 equity \
appropriations. For information regarding DCBs, please refer to Table 3.2.5 Departmental Capital Budget \
Statement.Fair Work Australia Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
238 \
Table 3.2.2: Budgeted Departmental Balance Sheet (as at 30 June) \
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
ASSETS\
Financial assets\
Cash and cash equivalents 452         452         452         452         452         \
Trade and other receivables 57,187    57,068    56,458    58,570    58,570    \
Total financial assets    57,520 57,639    56,910    59,022    59,022    \
Non-financial assets\
Land and buildings 11,010    10,509    9,802      8,568      11,158    \
Property, plant and equipment 3,600      3,738      3,636      3,747      3,738      \
Intangibles 1,092      891         840         636         636         \
Other non-financial assets 1,858      1,858      1,858      1,858      1,858      \
Total non-financial assets    16,996 17,560    16,136    14,809    17,390    \
Assets held for sale -              -              -              -              -              \
Total assets 75,199    74,516    73,046    73,831    76,412    \
LIABILITIES\
Payables\
Suppliers 150         94           94           94           94           \
Other payables 6,608      6,470      6,259      6,262      6,262      \
Total payables      6,564 6,758      6,353      6,356      6,356      \
Provisions\
Employee provisions 15,269    15,381    15,493    15,493    15,493    \
Other provisions 2,848      2,848      2,848      2,848      2,848      \
Tota  l   pr ovi si ons    18,229 18,117    18,341    18,341    18,341    \
Liabilities included in disposal\
groups held for sale -              -              -              -              -              \
Total liabilities 24,875    24,793    24,694    24,697    24,697    \
Net assets 50,324    49,723    48,352    49,134    51,715    \
EQUIT Y*\
Parent entity interest\
Contributed equity 46,670    47,791    48,142    50,646    53,227    \
Retained surplus\
(accumulated deficit) 3,654      1,932      210         (1,512)     (1,512)     \
Total parent entity interest    49,723 50,324    48,352    49,134    51,715    \
Total Equity 50,324    49,723    48,352    49,134    51,715    Fair Work Australia Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
239 \
Table 3.2.3: Departmental Statement of Changes in Equity \'96 summary of \
movement (Budget year 2012-13) \
Retained Asset Other Contributed Total\
earnings revaluation reserves equity/ equity\
reserve capital\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Opening balance as at 1 July 2012\
Balance carried forw ard from\
previous period 3,654 -               -           46,670 50,324\
Adjusted opening balance 3,654 -               -           46,670 50,324\
Comprehensive income\
Surplus (deficit) for the period (1,722)  -               -           -               (1,722)\
Total comprehensive income 1,932 -               -           46,670 48,602\
of w hich:\
Attributable to the Australian Government 1,932 -               -           46,670 48,602\
Transactions with owners\
Contributions by owners\
Departmental Capital Budget (DCBs) -          -               -           1,121 1,121\
Sub-total transactions with owners          - -               -            1,121 1,121\
Transfers betw een equity\
components -          -               -           -               -          \
Estimated closing balance\
as at 30 June 2013 1,932               - -            47,791 49,723Fair Work Australia Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
240 \
Table 3.2.4: Budgeted Departmental Statement of Cash Flows               \
 (for the period ended 30 June) \
   \
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
OPERATING ACTIVITIES\
Cas h  r e ce ive d\
Appropriations 85,274 73,858 74,066 72,369 75,234\
Other 367 369 99 99 -              \
Total cash received 85,641 74,227 74,165 72,468 75,234\
Cash used\
Employees 50,298 47,693 46,047 47,080 48,522\
Suppliers 26,363 26,497 27,607 27,497 26,712\
Total cash used 76,661 74,190 73,654 74,577 75,234\
Net cash from (used by)\
operating activities 8,980 37 511 (2,109)                   -\
INVESTING ACTIVITIES\
Cas h  r e ce ive d              - -              -              -              -              \
Total cash received              - -              -              -              -              \
Cash used\
Purchase of property, plant \
and equipment 11,194 1,158 862 395 2,581\
Total cash used 11,194 1,158 862 395 2,581\
Net cash from (used by)  \
investing activities (11,194)   (1,158)     (862)        (395)        (2,581)     \
FINANCING ACTIVITIES\
Cas h  r e ce ive d\
Contributed equity 2,214 1,121 351 2,504 2,581\
Total cash received 2,214 1,121 351 2,504 2,581\
Cash used\
Other -              -              -              -              -              \
Total cash used              - -              -              -              -              \
Net cash from (used by)  \
financing activities 2,214 1,121 351 2,504 2,581\
Ne  t  incr e  as e   (de cr e as e )\
in cash held              - -              -              -              -              \
Cash and cash equivalents at the\
beginning of the reporting period 452 452 452 452 452\
Cash and cash equivalents at the \
end of the reporting period 452 452 452 452 452Fair Work Australia Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
241 \
Table 3.2.5: Departmental Capital Budget Statement  \
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
NEW CAPITAL APPROPRIATIONS\
Capital budget - Bill 1 (DCB) 2,214    1,121    351       2,504     2,581       \
Equity injections - Bill 2 -            -           -           -             -              \
Total new capital appropriations 2,214    1,121    351       2,504     2,581       \
Provided for:\
Purchase of non-financial assets 2,214    1,121    351       2,504     2,581       \
Total Items 2,214    1,121    351       2,504     2,581       \
PURCHASE OF NON- FINANCIAL\
ASSETS\
Funded by capital appropriations \
1\
      212 1,690         -             -              -              \
Funded by capital appropriation - DCB \
2\
      946 7,033         862         395         2,581       \
Funded internally from\
departmental resources \
3\
      - 2,471             -             -              -              \
TOTAL 11,194  1,158    862       395        2,581       \
RECONCILIATION OF CASH\
USED TO ACQUIRE ASSETS\
TO  ASSET  M OV EM ENT  TABLE\
Total purchases 11,194  1,158    862       395        2,581       \
less additions by finance lease -            -           -           -             -              \
less additions by creditors / borrow ings -            -           -           -             -              \
plus borrow ing / finance costs -            -           -           -             -              \
plus Annual finance lease costs -            -           -           -             -              \
less Gifted assets  -            -           -           -             -              \
less s32  /  restructuring  -            -           -           -             -              \
Total cash used to\
acquire assets 11,194  1,158    862       395        2,581       \
1\
 Includes both current and prior Bill 2/4/6 appropriations and special capital appropriations\
2\
 Does not include annual finance lease costs.  Include purchase from current and previous\
years' Departmental Capital Budgets (DCBs).\
3\
 Includes the follow ing sources of funding:\
   - current and prior year Bill 1/3/5 appropriations (excluding amounts from the DCB).\
   - donations and contributions\
   - gifts\
   - internally developed assets\
   - s31 relevant agency receipts (for FMA agencies only)\
   - proceeds from the sale of assetsFair Work Australia Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
242 \
Table 3.2.6: Statement of Asset Movements (2012-13)  \
Bu ild ings Other property, Computer To ta l\
plant and so ftwa re  and\
equipment  in tangibles\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
As a t 1 July 2 0 12\
Gross book va lue 24,538 5,662 1,892 32,092\
Accumu la ted deprec ia tion/amortisa tion  (13,528)  (2 ,062)  (800)  (16,390)\
and  impairment\
O  p e  n in g   n  e  t   b o  o k   b a  la  n c  e  11,  0  10  3  ,  6  0  0  1,  0  9  2  15  ,  7  0  2\
C A P  IT  A L   A S  S  ET   A D D IT  IO  N S\
Es t ima  t e  d   e  xp e  n d it u re   o n\
n e  w  o r  re  p la c  e me n t   a  sse t s\
By purchase  -  appropria tion ordinary 219 840 99 1,158\
annual se rvices \
2\
Disposals \
3\
(359)  (635)  (629)  (1,623)\
T o t a  l  a  d  d it io  n s ( 14 0  )  2  0 5  ( 5 3  0 )  ( 4 6  5 )\
O  t h e  r  mo ve  me  n t s\
Deprec ia tion/amortisa tion expense  (720)  (702)  (300)  (1,722)\
Disposals 359 635 629 1,623\
T o t a l  o t h e r  mo ve me n t s  ( 3 6 1)  ( 6 7 )  3 2 9  ( 9 9 )\
A s  a t   3 0   Ju n e   2  0 13\
Gross book va lue 24,398 5,867 1,362 31,627\
Accumu la ted deprec ia tion/amortisa tion\
and  impairment  (13,889)  (2 ,129)  (471)  (16 ,489)\
C lo s in g   n  e  t   b o  o k   b a  la  n c  e  10  ,  5  0  9  3  ,  7  3  8  8  9  1  15  ,  13  8\
1\
 "Appropriation equity" refers to equity injections or Administered Assets and Liabilities appropriations provided through\
Appropriation Bill (No.2) 2012-13, including CDABs.\
2\
 "Appropriation ordinary annual services" refers to funding provided through Appropriation Bill (No.1) 2012-13 for \
depreciation / amortisation expenses, DCBs or other operational expenses.\
3\
 Net proceeds may be returned to the OPA.Fair Work Australia Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
243 \
Table 3.2.7: Schedule of Budgeted Income and Expenses Administered on behalf \
of Government (for the period ended 30 June) \
Table 3.2.8: Schedule of Budgeted Assets and Liabilities Administered on behalf \
of Government (as at 30 June) \
Fair Work Australia has no administered assets and liabilites. For this reason Table \
3.2.8 is not presented. \
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
EXPENSES ADM INISTERED ON\
BEHALF OF GOVERNMENT\
Employee benefits -              -              -              -              -              \
Suppliers -              -              -              -              -              \
Total  e xpe ns e s   adm  inis te  r e d\
on behalf of Government              - -              -              -              -              \
LESS:\
OWN- SOURCE INCOM E\
Own-source revenue              - -              -              -              -              \
Taxation revenue              - -              -              -              -              \
Total taxation revenue              - -              -              -              -              \
Non-taxation revenue\
Other revenue 582 582 582 582 -\
Total non-taxation revenue 582 582 582 582              -\
Total own-source revenues\
administered on behalf of \
Government 582 582 582 582\
Gains              - -              -              -              -              \
Total  gains   adm  inis  te r e d\
on behalf of Government              - -              -              -              -              \
Total own-sourced income\
administered on behalf of\
Gove r nm e nt              - -              -              -              -              \
Net Cost of (contribution by)\
services              - -              -              -              -              \
Surplus (Deficit) 582 582 582 582 -\
OTHER COM PREHENSIV E INCOM E\
Changes in asset revaluation surplus -              -              -              -              -              \
Total other comprehensive income              - -              -              -              -              \
Total comprehensive income (loss) 582 582 582 582 -Fair Work Australia Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
244 \
Table 3.2.9: Schedule of Budgeted Administered Cash Flows               \
 (for the period ended 30 June)  \
Table 3.2.10: Schedule of Administered Capital Budget \
Fair Work Australia has no administered capital budget.  For this reason Table 3.2.10 is \
not presented. \
Table 3.2.11: Schedule of Asset Movements \'97 Administered  \
Fair Work Australia has no administered assets and liabilities.  For this reason Table \
3.2.11 is not presented. \
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
OPERATING ACTIVITIES\
Cas h  r e ce ive d\
Other 582 582 582 582 -              \
Total cash received 582 582 582 582 -\
Cash used\
Other -              -              -              -              -              \
Total cash used              - -              -              -              -              \
Net cash from (used by) \
operating activities 582 582 582 582              -\
INVESTING ACTIVITIES\
Cas h  r e ce ive d\
Other -              -              -              -              -              \
Total cash received              - -              -              -              -              \
Cash used\
Other -              -              -              -              -              \
Total cash used              - -              -              -              -              \
Net cash from (used by) \
investing activities              - -              -              -              -              \
FINANCING ACTIVITIES\
Cas h  r e ce ive d\
Other -              -              -              -              -              \
Total cash received              - -              -              -              -              \
Cash used\
Other -              -              -              -              -              \
Total cash used              - -              -              -              -              \
Net cash from (used by) \
financing activities              - -              -              -              -              \
Net increase (decrease) in\
 cash held              - -              -              -              -              \
Cash to Official Public Account for:\
- Other 582          582          582          582          -              \
Cash and cash equivalents at end\
of reporting period              - -              -              -              -              Fair Work Australia Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
245 \
3.2.4 Notes to the financial statements \
Accounting Policy \
The budgeted financial statements have  been prepared in accordance with the \
requirements of the Finance Minister\'92s Orders issued by the Minister for Finance and \
Deregulation. \
The statements have been prepared: \
\'95 on an accrual accounting basis; and \
\'95 in compliance with Australian Accounting Standards and Australian Equivalents to \
International Financial Reporting Standards (AEIFRS) and other authoritative \
pronouncements of the Australian Accounting Standards Board and the Consensus \
Views of the Urgent Issues Group. \
Departmental Revenue from Government \
Revenue from government represents the  purchase of outputs from Fair Work \
Australia by the Government. The changes reflected in the ordinary annual \
appropriations are a result of those new measures and variations that are explained in \
Section 1: Agency overview and resources, variations and measures. \
Departmental Revenue from Other Sources \
Revenue from the sale of goods and services will be recognised upon the delivery of \
the goods or services to customers. \
Departmental Expenses \'96 Employees \
This item will represent payments made and net increases or decreases in entitlements \
owed to employees for their services provided in the financial year. \
Departmental Expenses \'96 Suppliers  \
This item will represent payments to suppliers for goods and services. \
Departmental Expenses \'96 Depreciation and Amortisation \
Property, plant and equipment assets are written-off to their estimated residual values \
over their estimated useful lives to Fair Work Australia using, in all cases, the straightline method of depreciation. \
Property plant and equipment assets will be depreciated over their useful lives \
between three and ten years. Leasehold improvements will be amortised on a straightline basis over the lesser of the estimated  useful life of the improvements or the \
unexpired period of the lease.   \
Forward estimates of depreciation expense  have been made using forecasts of net \
capital acquisition requirements over the forward years. Fair Work Australia Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
246 \
Departmental Assets \'96 Financial Assets \'96 Receivables  \
Receivables represent amounts which will be owing to Fair Work Australia for goods \
and services it has provided to external parties and cash reserves held in the Official \
Public Account. \
Departmental Assets \'96 Non-Financial Assets \
These items represent future economic benefits that Fair Work Australia will consume \
in producing outputs. Apart from re-valued assets, the reported value represents the \
purchase price paid, less depreciation incurred to date in using that asset from the \
transferring agencies. \
Land and Buildings, and Infrastructure, Plant and Equipment will initially be brought \
to account at cost, except for purchases costing less than $10,000 for leasehold \
improvements and $2,000 for all other classes, which will be expensed in the year of \
acquisition (other than where they form part of the group of similar items which are \
significant in total). \
Computer software, disclosed in the Departmental Balance Sheet as Intangibles, will be \
expensed in the year of acquisition except for purchases or internally developed \
software costing more than $2,000 which are capitalised at cost. \
Fair Work Australia will annually reassess and adjust the values of Land and Buildings \
(leasehold improvements), Infrastructure, Plant and Equipment. \
Departmental Liabilities \'96 Provisions \'96 Employees  \
Provision will be made for Fair Work Australia liability for employee entitlements \
arising from services rendered by Fair Work Australia Commission Members and Fair \
Work Australia employees to balance date. This liability will encompass unpaid wages \
and salaries, annual and long service leave and Judges\'92 leave. No provision will be \
made for sick leave. \
The liability for leave expected to be settled within 12 months is to be measured at the \
nominal amount. \
Other employee entitlements payable later than one year will be estimated at the \
present value of the expected future cash outflows in relation to those entitlements. \
Attrition rates and pay rises through promotion and wage/salary agreements will be \
been taken into account. 247 \
FAIR WORK OMBUDSMAN\
(POSITIONAL ONLY) 249 \
FAIR WORK OMBUDSMAN\
Section 1: Agency overview and resources ........................................................... 251\
1.1 Strategic direction ......................................................................................... 251\
1.2 Agency resource statement .......................................................................... 252\
1.3 Budget measures .......................................................................................... 253 \
Section 2: Outcomes and planned performance ................................................... 254\
2.1 Outcomes and performance information ...................................................... 254\
Section 3: Explanatory tables and budgeted financial statements ..................... 258\
3.1 Explanatory tables ........................................................................................ 258 \
3.2 Budgeted financial statements ..................................................................... 259 Fair Work Ombudsman Budget Statements \'96 Overview & resources \
251 \
FAIR WORK OMBUDSMAN\
Section 1: Agency overview and resources \
1.1 STRATEGIC DIRECTION\
The Fair Work Ombudsman is an independent statutory office created by the Fair Work \
Act 2009 on 1 July 2009. \
The Fair Work Ombudsman promotes harmonious, productive and cooperative \
workplace relations and ensures compliance with Commonwealth workplace laws, \
and does this by: \
\uc0\u61623  offering people a single point of contact for them to receive accurate and \
timely advice and information about Australia\'92s workplace relations system \
\uc0\u61623  educating people working in Australia about their workplace rights and \
obligations \
\uc0\u61623  investigating complaints or suspected contraventions of workplace laws, \
awards and agreements \
\uc0\u61623  litigating to enforce workplace laws and to deter people from not complying \
with their workplace responsibilities. \
The strategic focus of the Fair Work Ombudsman in 2012-13 is to ensure that there is \
increased compliance with Commonwealth  workplace laws through educating and \
advising employees, employers, outworkers, outworker entities and organisations \
about the federal workplace relations system. Fair Work Ombudsman Budget Statements \'96 Overview & resources \
252 \
1.2 AGENCY RESOURCE STATEMENT\
Table 1.1 shows the total resources from all origins. The table summarises how \
resources will be applied by outcome and by administered and departmental \
classification. \
Table 1.1: Agency Resource Statement \'97 Budget estimates for 2012-13 as at \
Budget May 2012 \
Estimate  Proposed Total Actual\
of prior +\
at Budget =\
estimate available\
year amounts appropriation\
available in\
2012-13 2012-13 2012-13 2011-12\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Ordinary Annual Services\'b9\
De par t m e nt al\
Departmental appropriation 57,478        128,771      186,249    141,790         \
s31 Relevant agency receipts\
2\
                   - -                    -                  -                     \
Total ordinary annual services  57,478        128,771      186,249    141,790         \
Othe r   s e r vice s\
3\
Departmental non-operating\
Equity injections 15,906        -                  15,906      1,400             \
Total other services 15,906        -                  15,906      1,400             \
Total Available Annual \
Appropriations 73,384        128,771      202,155    143,190         \
Special Appropriations\
Total Special Appropriations -                 -                  -                 -                     \
Total Appropriations excluding\
 Special Accounts 73,384        128,771      202,155    143,190         \
Special Accounts\
Total Special Accounts -                 -                  -                 -                     \
Total resourcing 73,384        128,771      202,155    143,190         \
Less appropriations draw n from\
annual or special appropriations -                 -                  -                 -                     \
Total net  r e  s  our  cing for Fair  \
Work Ombudsman 73,384          128,771        202,155      143,190         \
1 \
Approp riation Bill  (No.1) 2012- 13\
2\
 s31 Relevant Agency receipts - estimate\
3\
 Appropriation Bill (No.2) 2012- 13\
Reader no te: All  figures are GST exc lusive.Fair Work Ombudsman Budget Statements \'96 Overview & resources \
253 \
1.3 BUDGET MEASURES\
Budget measures relating to the Fair Work Ombudsman are detailed in Budget Paper \
No. 2 and are summarised below. \
Table 1.2: Agency 2012-13 Budget measures \
Prepared on a Government Financial Statistics (fiscal) basis. \
. \
Program 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Expense measures\
One-off 2.5% Efficiency Dividend 1\
Departmental expenses -  (3,231) (2,750) (2,760) (2,751) \
Total -  (3,231) (2,750) (2,760) (2,751) \
Road Safety Remuneration System - \
establishment 1\
Departmental expenses -  1,009 1,577 1,370 1,385 \
Total -  1,009 1,577 1,370 1,385 \
Community-based employment advice \
services - continued funding 1\
Departmental expenses -  -  -  -  -  \
Total -  -  -  -  -  \
Seasonal Labour Mobility Program \
w  ith Pacif  ic  Is land Countries and East \
Timor - establishment 1\
Departmental expenses -  196 198 200 202 \
Total -  196 198 200 202 \
Total expense measures\
Departmental -  (2,026) (975) (1,190) (1,164) \
Total -  (2,026) (975) (1,190) (1,164) \
Capital measures\
20% Reduction in DCB 1\
Departmental capital -  (703) (871) (1,096) (1,100) \
Total -  (703) (871) (1,096) (1,100) Fair Work Ombudsman Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
254 \
Section 2: Outcomes and planned performance \
2.1 OUTCOMES AND PERFORMANCE INFORMATION\
Government outcomes are the intended results, impacts or consequences of actions by \
the Government on the Australian community. Agencies deliver programs which are \
the Government actions taken to deliver the stated outcomes. Agencies are required to \
identify the programs which contribute to Government outcomes over the Budget and \
forward years. \
Each outcome is described below together with its related programs, specifying the \
performance indicators and targets used to assess and monitor the performance of the \
Fair Work Ombudsman in achieving Government outcomes. \
Outcome 1: Compliance with workplace relations legislation by employees \
and employers through advice, education and where necessary enforcement. \
Outcome 1 Strategy \
The workplace rights and obligations of employees, employers, outworkers, outworker \
entities and organisations are protected  and enforced through a mix of targeted \
compliance and education activities, investigation of breaches of workplace laws with \
a focus on voluntary compliance and, where necessary, litigation in the courts as a \
means of both general and specific deterrence. \
The Fair Work Ombudsman provides a single national point of contact for accurate \
and timely advice on the federal workplace relations system. \
More than 200 staff provide advice and information on workplace relations matters \
through the Fair Work Infoline.  Fair  Work Ombudsman advisors are located in \
contact centres in a number of states and provide a range of services including \
telephone advice, email / web support and live chat. \
 As part of its ongoing educative role, the agency undertakes education and \
compliance campaigns and provides information services and best practice guides. \
The educational and compliance campaigns are run at national, state and local levels \
and target particular industries or geographical locations. Fair Work Ombudsman Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
255 \
More than 600 Federal Government and  State Government employees have been \
appointed as Fair Work Inspectors.  These officers are located in all states and \
territories and investigate complaints or allegations received. It is expected that in the \
majority of instances compliance with workplace relations laws will be achieved \
voluntarily and will be assisted by targeted and industry specific auditing activities. \
Litigation activities are used when and  as required, particularly in cases where \
breaches have significant consequences, when they affect a vulnerable group or when \
a person does not acknowledge that the problem requires rectification. \
The Fair Work Ombudsman makes public statements about its enforcement activities \
to educate and ensure it has the trust of the Australian community and to foster \
general deterrence. \
Outcome 1 Budgeted Expenses and Resources \
Table 2.1 provides an overview of the total expenses for Outcome 1, by program. \
Table 2.1: Budgeted Expenses and Resources for Outcome 1 \
2011-12 2012-13\
Estimated Estimated\
Actual Expenses\
Expenses\
$'000 $'000\
Program 1: Education Services and Compliance Activities\
Departmental expenses\
Ordinary Annual Services (Appropriation Bill No. 1) \
1\
      125,964 132,702      \
Expenses not requiring Appropriation in the Budget year \
2\
        10,684 10,773        \
Total for Program 1 143,475      136,648      \
Outcome 1 Totals by Appropriation type\
Departmental Expenses\
Ordinary Annual Services (Appropriation Bill No. 1) \
1\
      125,964 132,702      \
Expenses not requiring Appropriation in the Budget year \
2\
        10,684 10,773        \
Total Expenses for Outcome 1 143,475      136,648      \
2011-12 2012-13\
Average Staffing Level (number) 823             753             \
Outcome 1: Compliance w ith w orkplace relations \
le gis lation  by  e m  ploye e s   and  e m  ploye r s   thr ough  advice , \
e ducation  and  w  he r e   ne ce s s ar y  e nfor ce m  e nt.\
1  \
Departmen ta l App rop riation comb ines  " Ord inary annua l se rvices  (Approp riation Bill No . 1)"  and  " Revenue  from \
independen t sources  (s31)"  .\
2\
Expenses no t  requiring app rop ria tion  in   the Budge t year  is made  up of Deprec ia tion Expense , Amortisa tion  \
Expense , Makegood Expense , Aud it Fees.Fair Work Ombudsman Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
256 \
Contributions to Outcome 1 \
Program 1: Education Services and Compliance Activities \
Program objective \
To educate employers, employees, organisations and contractors about the \
workplace relations system and to ensure compliance with workplace laws.\
Linked to: \
\'95 The Fair Work Ombudsman and Fair Work Australia were created under the Fair \
Work Act 2009. The Fair Work Ombudsman and Fair Work Australia develop \
cooperative approaches to the delivery of services to employees, employers and \
organisations. \
Program 1 expenses \
Program 1 deliverables \
The deliverables of the Fair Work Ombudsman are to: \
\'95 provide information, advice and education on the requirements and flexibilities of \
workplace laws to foster voluntary compliance \
\'95 investigate claims regarding alleged breaches of workplace laws and undertake \
targeted activities \
\'95 litigate, where necessary, to enforce compliance with workplace laws. \
   \
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Annual Departmental Expenses:\
Departmental Items 132,702 125,964 107,238 107,652 107,295\
Expenses not requiring Appropriation in the \
Budget year 10,773   10,684   11,120   10,800   11,102   \
Total Departmental Expenses 143,475 136,648 118,358 118,452 118,397\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
Deliverables $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Education, investigation, provision of \
advice and information services 143,475 136,648 118,358 118,452 118,397Fair Work Ombudsman Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
257 \
Program 1 Key Performance Indicators \
The Key Performance Indicators for the Fair Work Ombudsman are outlined in the \
following table and cover the key activities of education, advice and information \
services and investigations. \
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Key Performance Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
Indicators budget target year 1 year 2 year 3\
Number of targeted campaigns:\
National               4 4 4 4 4\
               2 2 2 2 2\
             80 80 80 80 80\
             80 80 80 80 80\
             99 99 99 99 99\
             99 99 99 99 99\
Availability of Website (time \
available as a percentage of total \
time) \
State (number of campaigns in \
each state/ territory)\
Investigations into complaints \
about breaches of federal \
agreements or aw ards completed \
w ithin 90 days (percentage of \
total complaints)\
Calls to the Contact Centre \
resolved at the first point of \
contact (percentage of total calls)\
Availability of Contact Centre \
services (percentage of \
availability during advertised \
hours)Fair Work Ombudsman Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
258 \
Section 3: Explanatory tables and budgeted financial \
statements \
Section 3 presents explanatory tables and budgeted financial statements which \
provide a comprehensive snapshot of agency finances for the budget year 2012-13.    \
It explains how budget plans are incorporated into the financial statements and \
provides further details of the reconciliation between appropriations and program \
expenses, movements in administered funds, special accounts and Government \
indigenous expenditure. \
3.1 EXPLANATORY TABLES\
3.1.1 Movement of administered funds between years \
The Fair Work Ombudsman has no administered funds appropriations.  For this \
reason Table 3.1.1 is not presented. \
3.1.2 Special Accounts \
Table 3.1.2: Estimates of Special Account Flows and Balances \
3.1.3 Australian Government Indigenous Expenditure \
The Fair Work Ombudsman has no specific indigenous expenses. For this reason Table \
3.1.3 is not presented. \
   \
Opening Closing\
balance Receipts Payments Adjustments balance\
2012-13 2012-13 2012-13 2012-13 2012-13\
2011-12 2011-12 2011-12 2011-12 2011-12\
Outcome $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Other Trust Monies - Financial           1\
Management and     200 1,860        100         -                 1,960     \
Acc ountab  i l i ty  Ac t 1997  1,660    300        100        -                1,860    \
s.20 (Unclaimed Wages)\
Total Special Accounts \
2012-13 Budget estimate 1,860     200        100         -                 1,960     \
Total   Spec i al   Accounts\
2011-12 estimated actual 1,660    300        100        -                1,860    Fair Work Ombudsman Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
259 \
3.2 BUDGETED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\
3.2.1 Differences in agency resourcing and financial statements \
The Agency Resource Statement (Table 1.1) details the total appropriation available to \
an agency from all sources.  For departmental operating appropriations (outputs) this \
includes carry-forward amounts as well as amounts appropriated at Budget.  As\
agencies incur and are funded for future liabilities and employee entitlements, the total \
amount of departmental operating appropriation available to an agency is unlikely to \
be fully utilised in the Budget year.  The difference between the Agency Resource \
Statement and the sum of all payments made at the departmental outputs level is the \
expected carry-forward amount of resources for the 2012-13 Budget year, including \
amounts related to meeting future employee entitlement obligations. \
3.2.2 Analysis of budgeted financial statements \
The Fair Work Ombudsman is budgeting for an operating loss of $10.6 million in 2012-\
13. \
Total revenues are estimated to be $126.0 million and total expenses $136.6 million.  \
Total assets at the end of the 2012-13 financial year are estimated to be $102.0 million. \
The majority of the assets represent property fit outs and receivables (appropriations \
receivable). Asset acquisitions are planned in Information Technology equipment and \
systems and on office accommodation fit outs. \
Total liabilities for 2012-13 are estimated at $40.4 million. The largest liability item is \
accrued employee entitlements. Fair Work Ombudsman Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
260 \
3.2.3 Budgeted financial statements tables \
Table 3.2.1: Comprehensive Income Statement (Showing Net Cost of Services) \
(for the period ended 30 June) \
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.\
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
EXPENSES\
Employee benefits 78,617    72,695    73,851    73,540    71,026    \
Suppliers 54,185    53,369    33,487    34,212    36,369    \
Depreciation and amortisation 10,673    10,584    11,020    10,700    11,002    \
Total expenses 143,475  136,648  118,358  118,452  118,397  \
LESS: \
OWN- SOURCE INCOM E\
Ow n-source revenue\
Other revenue -             -             -             -             -             \
Total own-source revenue             -             - -             -             -             \
Gains\
Resources free of charge 100         100         100         100         100         \
Total gains 100         100         100         100         100         \
Total ow n-source income 100         100         100         100         100         \
Net cost of services 143,375  136,548  118,258  118,352  118,297  \
Revenue from Government 132,702  125,964  107,238  107,652  107,295  \
Surplus (deficit) attributable to the \
Australian Government (10,673)  (10,584)  (11,020)  (10,700)  (11,002)  \
Total comprehensive income (loss)\
 attributable to the Australian \
Government (10,673)  (10,584) (11,020) (10,700) (11,002)\
Note: Reconciliation of comprehensive income attributable to the agency\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Total comprehensive income\
(loss) attributable to the\
Australian Government   (10,673)   (10,584)   (11,020)   (10,700)   (11,002)\
plus non-appropriated expenses;\
depreciation and amortisation expenses 10,673    10,584    11,020    10,700    11,002    \
Total comprehensive income\
(loss) attributable to the\
Agency              -               -               -               -               - Fair Work Ombudsman Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
261 \
Table 3.2.2: Budgeted Departmental Balance Sheet (as at 30 June) \
*'Equity' is the residual interest in assets after deduction of liabilities.\
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.\
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
ASSETS\
Financial assets\
Cash and equivalents 1,972      1,972      1,972      1,972      1,972      \
Trade and other receivables 74,421    66,671    62,067    57,100    57,100    \
Total financial assets    68,643 76,393    64,039    59,072    59,072    \
Non-financial assets\
Land and buildings 21,972    24,014    21,855    20,174    15,263    \
Infrastructure, plant and equipment 1,547      1,365      1,183      2,701      3,501      \
Intangibles 9,384      7,785      7,186      5,989      3,489      \
Other 143         143         143         143         143         \
Total non-financial assets    33,307 33,046    30,367    29,007    22,396    \
Total assets 109,439  101,950  94,406    88,079    81,468    \
LIABILITIES\
Provisions\
Employees 14,857    15,145    15,145    15,145    15,145    \
Other 7,915      7,915      7,915      7,915      7,915      \
Total provisions    23,060 22,772    23,060    23,060    23,060    \
Payables\
Suppliers 17,377    17,377    17,377    17,377    17,377    \
Total payables    17,377 17,377    17,377    17,377    17,377    \
Total liabilities 40,149    40,437    40,437    40,437    40,437    \
Net assets 69,290    61,513    53,969    47,642    41,031    \
EQUIT Y*\
Parent entity interest\
Contributed equity 82,232    85,039    88,515    92,888    97,279    \
Reserves 2,126      2,126      2,126      2,126      2,126      \
Retained surpluses or \
(accumulated deficits) (15,068)   (25,652)   (36,672)   (47,372)   (58,374)   \
Total parent entity interest    61,513 69,290    53,969    47,642    41,031    \
Total equity 69,290    61,513    53,969    47,642    41,031    Fair Work Ombudsman Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
262 \
Table 3.2.3: Departmental Statement of Changes in Equity \'97 summary of \
movement (Budget year 2012-13) \
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis. \
Retained Asset Other Contributed Total\
earnings revaluation reserves equity/ equity\
reserve capital\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Opening balance as at 1 July 2012\
Balance carried forw ard from\
previous period (15,068)   2,126       -             82,232     69,290    \
Adjusted opening balance   2,126 (15,068)       -             82,232     69,290    \
Income and expense\
Surplus (deficit) for the period (10,584)   -              -             -              (10,584)  \
Total income and expense\
recognised directly in equity   - (10,584)              -             -              (10,584)  \
Transactions with owners\
Contrib ution  b y  owners\
Appropriation (equity injection) -              -              -             -              -             \
Departmental Capital Budget (DCBs) -              -              -             2,807       2,807      \
Sub-total transactions with owners              - -              -             2,807       2,807      \
Transfers betw een equity\
components -              -              -             -              -             \
Estimated closing balance\
as at 30 June 2013 (25,652)   2,126       -             85,039     61,513    \
Closing balance attributable to the \
Australian Government (25,652)   2,126       -             85,039     61,513    Fair Work Ombudsman Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
263 \
Table 3.2.4: Budgeted Departmental Statement of Cash Flows \
(for the period ended 30 June) \
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis. \
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
OPERATING ACTIVITIES\
Cash received\
Appropriations 139,292   133,714   111,842   112,619   107,295   \
Tota l   ca sh  r ecei ved   133,714 139,292   111,842   112,619   107,295   \
Cas h  us e d\
Employees 80,742     72,407     73,851     73,540     71,026     \
Suppliers 54,085     53,269     33,387     34,112     36,269     \
Total cash used   125,676 134,827   107,238   107,652   107,295   \
Net cash from (or used by)\
operating activities 4,465       8,038       4,604       4,967       -              \
INV ESTING ACTIV ITIES\
Cash received\
Other -                            - -              -              -              \
Tota l   ca sh  r ecei ved              -              - -              -              -              \
Cas h  us e d\
Purchase of property, plant \
and equipment 14,953     10,845     8,080       9,340       4,391       \
Total cash used     10,845 14,953     8,080       9,340       4,391       \
Net cash from (or used by)  \
investing activities (14,953)   (10,845)   (8,080)     (9,340)     (4,391)     \
FINANCING ACTIVITIES\
Cash received\
Appropriations - contributed equity 10,488     2,807       3,476       4,373       4,391       \
Tota l   ca sh  r ecei ved     2,807 10,488       3,476       4,373       4,391       \
Cas h  us e d\
Other -                            - -              -              -              \
Total cash used              -              - -              -              -              \
Net cash from (or used by)  \
financing activities 10,488     2,807       3,476       4,373       4,391       \
Ne t  incr e as  e   (or   de cr e as e  )\
in cash held              -              -              - -              -              \
Cash at the beginning of \
the reporting period 1,972       1,972       1,972       1,972       1,972       \
Cas h  at  the   e nd  of  the  \
reporting period 1,972       1,972       1,972       1,972       1,972       Fair Work Ombudsman Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
264 \
Table 3.2.5: Departmental Capital Budget Statement \
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis. \
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
NEW CAPITAL APPROPRIATIONS\
Capital budget - Bill 1 (DCB) 9,088    2,807    3,476    4,373     4,391       \
Equity injections - Bill 2 1,400    -           -           -             -              \
Total new capital appropriations 10,488  2,807    3,476    4,373     4,391       \
Provided for:\
Purchase of non-financial assets 10,488  2,807    3,476    4,373     4,391       \
Total Items 10,488  2,807    3,476    4,373     4,391       \
PURCHASE OF NON- FINANCIAL\
ASSETS\
Funded by capital appropriations \
1\
      2,580 5,000      -             -              -              \
Funded by capital appropriation - DCB \
2\
      5,265 5,953      8,080      9,340      4,391       \
Funded internally from\
departmental  resources \
3\
    3,000 4,000    -           -             -              \
TOTAL 14,953  10,845  8,080    9,340     4,391       \
RECONCILIATION OF CASH\
USED TO ACQUIRE ASSETS\
TO  ASSET  M OV EM ENT  TABLE\
Total purchases 14,953  10,845  8,080    9,340     4,391       \
less additions by finance lease -            -           -           -             -              \
less additions by creditors / borrow ings -            -           -           -             -              \
Total cash used to\
acquire assets 14,953  10,845  8,080    9,340     4,391       \
1\
 Includes both current and prior Bill 2/4/6 appropriations and special capital appropriations.\
2\
 Does not include annual finance lease costs.  Includes purchases from current and previous\
years' Departmental Capital Budgets (DCBs).\
3\
 Includes the follow ing sources of funding:\
   - current and prior year Bill 1/3/5 appropriations (excluding amounts from the DCB)\
   - donations and contributions\
   - gifts\
   - internally developed assets\
   - s31 relevant agency receipts (for FMA agencies only)\
   - proceeds from the sale of assets.Fair Work Ombudsman Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
265 \
Table 3.2.6: Statement of Asset Movements (2012-13) \
 Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis. \
Total\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
as at 1 July 2012\
Gross book value       2,621 46,145            23,114        71,880        \
A ccumulated \
depreciation/amortisation (24,173) (1,074) (13,730) (38,977)\
Opening net book balance      1,547 21,972            9,384          32,903        \
CAPITAL ASSET ADDITIONS\
Estimated expenditure on new or \
replacement assets\
by purchase or internally developed        - 7,845                    3,000          10,845        \
Sub-total        - 7,845                    3,000          10,845        \
Other Movements\
Depreciation/amortisation expense (5,803) (182) (4,599) (10,584)\
as at 30 June 2013\
Gross book value      2,621 53,990            26,114        82,725        \
A ccumulated \
depreciation/amortisation (29,976) (1,256) (18,329) (49,561)\
Closing net book balance      1,365 24,014            7,785          33,164        \
Land and \
Buildings\
Infrastructure, \
Plant & \
Equipment IntangiblesFair Work Ombudsman Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
266 \
Table 3.2.7: Schedule of Budgeted Income and Expenses Administered on behalf \
of Government (for the period ended 30 June) \
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis. \
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
INCOM E  ADM INISTERED  ON\
BEHALF OF GOVERNMENT\
Re ve nue\
Non-taxation\
Other sources of non-taxation\
revenues 600         300         300         300         300         \
Total non-taxation         300 600         300         300         300         \
Total revenues administered\
on behalf of Government 600         300         300         300         300         \
Total income administered\
on behalf of Government 600         300         300         300         300         \
EXPENSES A DM INIST ERED ON\
BEHALF OF GOVERNMENT\
Grants -              -              -              -              -              \
Write dow n and impairment of assets -              -              -              -              -              \
Total  e xpe ns e s   adm  inis te r e d\
on behalf of Government -              -              -              -              -              Fair Work Ombudsman Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
267 \
Table 3.2.8: Schedule of Budgeted Assets and Liabilities Administered on behalf \
of Government (as at 30 June) \
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.\
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
ASSETS\
Financial assets\
Receivables 864          864          864          864          864          \
Other financial assets 4              4              4              4              4              \
Total financial assets          868 868          868          868          868          \
Total  as s e ts   adm  inis te r e d \
on behalf of Government 868          868          868          868          868          \
LIABILITIES\
Payables\
Suppliers -              -              -              -              -              \
Subsidies -              -              -              -              -              \
Personal benefits -              -              -              -              -              \
Grants -              -              -              -              -              \
Other payables -              -              -              -              -              \
Total payables              - -              -              -              -              \
Interest bearing liabilities\
Loans -              -              -              -              -              \
Leases -              -              -              -              -              \
Deposits -              -              -              -              -              \
Other -              -              -              -              -              \
Tota l   i nter est  bea r i ng  l  i  a bi l i ti es              - -              -              -              -              \
Provisions\
Employee provisions -              -              -              -              -              \
Taxation refunds provided -              -              -              -              -              \
Other provisions -              -              -              -              -              \
Total provisions              - -              -              -              -              \
Liabilities included in disposal\
groups held for sale -              -              -              -              -              \
Total liabilities administered\
on behalf of Government -              -              -              -              -              \
Net assets/(liabilities) 868          868          868          868          868          Fair Work Ombudsman Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
268 \
Table 3.2.9: Schedule of Budgeted Administered Cash Flows \
(for the period ended 30 June) \
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis. \
Table 3.2.10: Schedule of Asset Movements - Administered  \
The Fair Work Ombudsman has no administered assets. \
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
OPERATING ACTIVITIES\
Cash received\
Other 600         300         300         300         300         \
Total cash received         300 600         300         300         300         \
Cas h  us  e d\
Other -              -              -              -              -              \
Total cash used              -              - -              -              -              \
Ne t  cas h  fr om   (or   us e d  by) \
operating activities 600         300         300         300         300         \
INVESTING ACTIVITIES\
Cash received\
Other -              -              -              -              -              \
Total cash received              - -              -              -              -              \
Cas h  us  e d\
Other -              -              -              -              -              \
Total cash used              - -              -              -              -              \
Ne t  cas h  fr om   (or   us e d  by) \
investing activities -              -              -              -              -              \
FINANCING ACTIVITIES\
Cash received\
Other -              -              -              -              -              \
Total cash received              - -              -              -              -              \
Cas h  us  e d\
Other -              -              -              -              -              \
Total cash used              - -              -              -              -              \
Ne t  cas h  fr om   (or   us e d  by) \
financing activities -              -              -              -              -              \
Net increase (or decrease) in\
 cash held         300 600         300         300         300         \
Cash from Official Public Account for:\
- appropriations -              -              -              -              -              \
- special accounts -              -              -              -              -              \
Cash  to Of  f  icial Public  Account  f or:\
- appropriations -              -              -              -              -              \
- special accounts -              -              -              -              -              \
- other (600)        (300)        (300)        (300)        (300)        \
Cash at end of reporting period -              -              -              -              -              Fair Work Ombudsman Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
269 \
3.2.4 Notes to the financial statements \
Accounting Policy \
The budgeted financial statements have  been prepared in accordance with the \
requirements of the Finance Minister\'92s Orders issued by the Minister for Finance and \
Deregulation. \
The statements have been prepared: \
\'95 on an accrual accounting basis \
\'95 in compliance with Australian Accounting Standards and Australian Equivalents to \
International Financial Reporting Standards (AEIFRS) and other authoritative \
pronouncements of the Australian Accounting Standards Board and the Consensus \
Views of the Urgent Issues Group. \
Agency Revenue from Government \
Revenue from Government represents the purchase of outputs from the Fair Work \
Ombudsman by the Government.  \
Agency Revenue - Own Source Income \
Revenue from the sale of goods and services is recognised upon the delivery of the \
goods or services to customers. \
Agency Expenses \'96 Employee Benefits \
This item represents payments made and net increases or decreases in entitlements \
owed to employees for their services provided in the financial year. \
Agency Expenses \'96 Suppliers  \
This item represents payments to suppliers for goods and services. \
Agency Expenses \'96 Depreciation and Amortisation \
Property, plant, equipment and intangible assets are written-off to their estimated \
residual values over their estimated useful lives to the Fair Work Ombudsman using, \
in all cases, the straight-line method of depreciation. \
Computing equipment assets are depreciated over their useful lives which are between \
three and seven years. Office machines are depreciated over five years (20 per cent). \
Leasehold improvements are amortised on a straight-line basis over the lesser of the \
estimated useful life of the improvements or the unexpired period of the lease.   \
Forward estimates of depreciation expense  are made using forecasts of net capital \
acquisition requirements over the forward years. Fair Work Ombudsman Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
270 \
Agency Assets \'96 Financial Assets \'96 Cash \
Cash represents notes and coins held and deposits at call with a bank or financial \
institution. \
Agency Assets \'96 Financial Assets \'96 Receivables  \
Receivables represent amounts owing to the Fair Work Ombudsman for goods and \
services it has provided to external parties and cash reserves held in the Official Public \
Account. \
Agency Assets \'96 Non-Financial Assets \
These items represent future economic benefits that the Fair Work Ombudsman will \
consume in producing outputs. Apart from re-valued assets, the reported value \
represents the purchase price paid less depreciation incurred to date in using that \
asset. \
Infrastructure, plant and equipment is initially brought to account at cost, except for \
purchases costing less than $2,000, which are expensed in the year of acquisition (other \
than where they form part of a group of similar items which are significant in total). \
Internally developed or purchased computer software, disclosed in the Departmental \
Balance Sheet as intangibles, is expensed in the year of acquisition except for \
purchased software costing more than $2,000 or for internally developed software \
costing more than $200,000 which are capitalised at cost. \
Land and buildings (leasehold improvements) are initially brought to account at cost, \
except for purchases costing less than $2,000, which are expensed in the year of \
acquisition.  The Fair Work Ombudsman annually reassesses and adjusts the values of \
land and buildings (leasehold improvements), infrastructure, plant and equipment. \
Agency Liabilities \'96 Provisions \'96 Employees  \
Provision has been made for the Fair Work Ombudsman\'92s liability for employee \
entitlements arising from services rendered by employees to balance date. This liability \
encompasses unpaid wages and salaries, annual and long service leave. No provision \
is made for sick leave. \
The liability for leave expected to be settled within 12 months has been measured at \
the nominal amount. \
Other employee entitlements payable later than one year have been estimated at the \
present value of the expected future cash outflows in relation to those entitlements. \
Attrition rates and pay rises through promotion and wage/salary agreements have \
been taken into account in calculating the provision for employee entitlements. Fair Work Ombudsman Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
271 \
Agency Liabilities \'96 Payables \'96 Suppliers \
This item mainly comprises trade creditors and operating lease rentals. \
Administered Non-Taxation Revenue \'96 Other Sources \
This revenue comprises court awarded penalties relating to breaches of the Fair Work \
Act 2009 and other relevant legislation. The penalties are administered by the Fair \
Work Ombudsman on behalf of Government. \
Administered Assets \'96 Financial Assets \'96 Receivables  \
These assets comprise receivables relating to court awarded penalties for breaches of \
the Fair Work Act 2009 and other relevant legislation. The penalties are administered by \
the Fair Work Ombudsman on behalf of Government.  \
Administered Cash Flows \
These cash flows relate to court awarded penalties for breaches of the Fair Work Act \
2009 and other relevant legislation. The penalties are administered by the Fair Work \
Ombudsman on behalf of Government and are paid directly into the Consolidated \
Revenue Fund.  273 \
OFFICE OF THE AUSTRALIAN \
BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION \
COMMISSIONER\
(POSITIONAL ONLY) 275 \
OFFICE OF THE AUSTRALIAN BUILDING AND \
CONSTRUCTION COMMISSIONER\
Section 1: Agency overview and resources ........................................................... 277\
1.1 Strategic direction statement ........................................................................ 277\
1.2 Agency resource statement .......................................................................... 279\
1.3 Budget measures .......................................................................................... 280 \
Section 2: Outcomes and planned performance ................................................... 281\
2.1 Outcomes and performance information ...................................................... 281\
Section 3: Explanatory tables and budgeted financial statements ..................... 284\
3.1 Explanatory tables ........................................................................................ 284 \
3.2 Budgeted financial statements ..................................................................... 285 ABCC Budget Statements \'96 Overview & resources \
277 \
OFFICE OF THE AUSTRALIAN BUILDING AND \
CONSTRUCTION COMMISSIONER\
Section 1: Agency overview and resources \
1.1 STRATEGIC DIRECTION STATEMENT\
The Office of the Australian Building and Construction Commissioner was established \
on 1 October 2005 by the Building and Construction Industry Improvement Act 2005.  It is \
an independent statutory body responsible for investigating and prosecuting breaches \
of the  Building and Construction Industry Improvement Act 2005, the  Independent \
Contractors Act 2006 and  the  Fair Work Act 2009  in relation to the building and \
construction industry. \
The Office of the Australian Building and Construction Commissioner (ABCC) has \
prime responsibility for the following matters in respect of the building and \
construction industry:\
\'95 Investigating suspected contraventions of the  Building and Construction Industry \
Improvement Act 2005, the Independent Contractors Act 2006, the Fair Work Act 2009, \
workplace agreements, orders and awards. \
\'95 Instituting proceedings against industry participants contravening the relevant \
Acts, agreements, orders and awards. \
\'95 Intervening in matters before Fair Work Australia or the courts that involve an \
industry participant or building work. \
\'95 Monitoring, promoting and securing compliance with the National Code. \
\'95 Providing advice and assistance to industry participants regarding their rights and \
obligations. \
\'95 Disseminating information about the relevant Acts, the National Code and \
promoting appropriate standards of conduct by industry participants. \
\'95 If appropriate, referring matters to other Commonwealth, State or Territory bodies \
including the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission, the Australian \
Taxation Office, and the Australian Federal Police. \
   ABCC Budget Statements \'96 Overview & resources \
278 \
During 2011-12, the ABCC planned to achieve the following outcomes: \
\'95 the workplace relations conduct of industry participants is lawful \
\'95 participants who engage in unlawful conduct are held accountable for their actions \
\'95 an increased level of compliance with the National Code. \
Challenges impacting on the ABCC outcomes during 2011-12 were: \
\'95 to maintain the momentum of reform during a transition period to new regulatory \
arrangements \
\'95 the continued disregard some industry participants display towards the legal rights \
of others. \
Subject to any Ministerial determinations providing otherwise, the ABCC will cease \
operations on, or around, 1 June 2012 in accordance with the  Fair Work (Building \
Industry) Act 2012. The staff, assets, liabilities and Departmental appropriations of the \
ABCC will transfer to the Office of the Fair Work Building Industry Inspectorate \
(FWBII) on the commencement date of the Fair Work (Building Industry) Act 2012. ABCC Budget Statements \'96 Overview & resources \
279 \
1.2 AGENCY RESOURCE STATEMENT\
Table 1.1 shows the total resources from all sources. The table summarises how \
resources will be applied by outcome and by administered and departmental \
classification. \
Table 1.1: Office of the Australian Building and Construction Commissioner \
Resource Statement \'97 Budget Estimates for 2012-13 as at Budget May 2012 \
All figures are GST exclusive.\
Estima te Proposed To ta l Ac tual\
of p rio r\
+\
at Budget\
=\
estima te ava ilable\
yea r amounts app rop ria tion\
 available   in\
2 0 12 - 13 2 0 12 - 13 2 0 12 - 13 2 0 11- 12\
$ '000 $ '000 $ '000 $ '000\
O  rd  in a  ry   a  n n u a  l  se  rv ic  e  s\
D e  p a  rt me  n t a  l  a  p p ro p ria  t io n\
Prio r year departmen ta l approp ria tion                            -                         -                        -   3 6 ,0 0 6             \
Depa rtmenta l appropria tion                            -                         -                        -   6 4                       \
T o t a l                                   -                                 -                               -                       3 6 , 0 7 0  \
T o t a  l  o rd in a  ry   a  n n u a  l  se  rv ic  e  s     A                                   -                                 -                               -                       3  6  ,0 7 0  \
O t h e r  se rv ic e s\
D e  p a  rt me  n t a  l  n o n -  o p e  ra  t in g\
Equity injec tions\
Tota l                 -                -               -                    -  \
Tota l othe r se rvic e s B                 -                -               -                    -  \
T o t a l  a va ila b le   a n n u a l \
a ppropria tions                 -                -               -   3 6 ,0 7 0\
S p e c ia l  a p p ro p ria t io n s\
Tota l spe c ia l a ppropria tions C                 -                -               -                    -  \
T o t a  l  a  p p ro p ria  t io n s   e  xc  lu d  in g\
  S  p e  c  ia  l  A c  c  o u n t s                                   -                                 -                               -                       3  6  ,0 7 0  \
S  p e  c  ia  l  A c  c  o u n t s\
Opening balance                 -                -               -                    -  \
Tota l Spe c ia l Ac c ount D                 -                -               -                    -  \
T o t a l  re so u rc in g                                   -                                 -                               -                       3 6 , 0 7 0  \
A+B+C+D\
Less approp riations drawn  from\
annual or spec ia l approp ria tions above  -                             -                       -                      -                             \
and  c red ited  to  spec ia l accoun ts  -                             -                       -                      -                             \
and /o r CAC Ac t bodies  th rough  \
annual approp ria tions  -                             -                       -                      -                             \
T o t a  l  n e  t   re  so u rc  in g   f o r  t h e\
Offic e of the Austra lia n Building\
a  n d   C o n s t ru c  t io n   C o mmiss io n e  r  -            -        -        3 6 ,0 7 0      ABCC Budget Statements \'96 Overview & resources \
280 \
1.3 BUDGET MEASURES\
Budget measures relating to the Office of the Australian Building and Construction \
Commissioner are detailed in Budget Paper No. 2 and are summarised below.  \
Table 1.2: Office of the Australian Building and Construction Commissioner \
2012-13 Budget measures \
Prepared on a Government Finance Statistics (fiscal) basis.\
Program 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Expense measures (if applicable)\
Efficiency Dividend - increase in the rate 1.1\
Departmental expenses - (848) (857) (865) (875)\
Total - (848) (857) (865) (875)\
Total expense measures\
Departmental - (848) (857) (865) (875)\
Total - (848) (857) (865) (875)\
Capital measures (if applicable)\
Efficiency Dividend - increase in the rate 1.1\
Departmental capital - (170) (29) (112) (113)\
Total - (170) (29) (112) (113)\
Total capital measures\
Departmental - (170) (29) (112) (113)\
Total - (170) (29) (112) (113)ABCC Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
281 \
Section 2: Outcomes and planned performance \
2.1 OUTCOMES AND PERFORMANCE INFORMATION\
Government outcomes are the intended results, impacts or consequences of actions by \
the Government on the Australian community. Commonwealth programs are the \
primary vehicle by which government agencies achieve the intended results of their \
outcome statements. Agencies are required to identify the programs which contribute \
to Government outcomes over the Budget and forward years. \
Each outcome is described below together with its related programs, specifying the \
performance indicators and targets used to assess and monitor the performance of the \
ABCC in achieving Government outcomes. \
Outcome 1: Workplace relations laws are enforced in building and \
construction industry workplaces  \
Outcome 1 Strategy \
Key strategies towards achieving the ABCC\'92s outcomes in 2011-12 were to: \
\'95 Inform and educate industry participants through a variety of mediums about their \
rights and obligations. \
\'95 Provide an active and accessible team of investigators to respond quickly to \
complaints of unlawful conduct. \
\'95 Undertake legal proceedings in a timely manner to ensure those contravening the \
law are held accountable for their actions. ABCC Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
282 \
Outcome Expense Statement \
Table 2.1 provides an overview of the total expenses for outcome 1 by program. \
Table 2.1: Budgeted Expenses for Outcome 1 \
Outcome 1:  Workplace relations law s are enforced in  2011-12 2012-13\
building and construction industry workplaces Estimated Estimated\
actual expenses\
expenses\
$'000 $'000\
Program 1.1: Workplace relations law s are enforced in \
building and construction industry workplaces\
Departmental expenses\
Departmental appropriation \
1\
30,820 -                \
Expenses not requiring appropriation in the Budget year \
2\
1,268 -                \
Total for Program 1.1 32,088                -\
Outcome 1 Totals by appropriation type\
Departmental expenses\
Departmental appropriation \
1\
30,820 -                \
Expenses not requiring appropriation in the Budget year \
2\
1,268 -                \
Total expenses for Outcome 1 32,088                -\
2011-12 2012-13\
Average Staffing Level (number) \
3\
               155                    -\
1  \
Departmental Appropria tion comb ines  "Ord inary annual se rvices  (Appropria tion Bill No. 1)" and  "Revenue  from \
independent sources  (s31)"  .\
2 \
Expenses not  requiring appropria tion  in   the Budget year  is made up of Deprec ia tion Expense, Amortisa tion \
Expense, Makegood Expense, Audit Fees.\
3 \
On 1 June 2012  the ABCC was abolished and new a new agency was c reated  in   its place. Although  the FWBII \
was operational with  staff  in  2011- 12   the ASL count  is shown against ABCC.\
No te : Departmental appropria tion sp lits and  to ta ls are  indica tive  estima tes and may change  in   the course  of  the \
budget year as Gove rnment prio rities change.\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Annual departmental expenses:\
Departmental Appropriation 30,820                -              -              -              - \
Expenses not requiring appropriation in\
the Budget year \
1\
                  -              -              -              -  1,268\
Total  pr ogr am   e xpe ns e s   32,088   -             -            -            -            \
1\
 Expenses not requiring appropriation in the Budget year is made up of Depreciation Expense, Amortisation \
Expense, Makegood Expense, Audit Fees.ABCC Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
283 \
Contributions to Outcome 1 \
Program 1.1: Workplace relations laws are enforced in building and \
construction industry workplaces  \
Program objective \
The objective of the ABCC is to achieve the following: \
\'95 workplace relations conduct of industry participants is lawful \
\'95 participants who engage in unlawful conduct are held accountable for their \
actions \
\'95 an improved level of knowledge of building industry participants about their \
rights and obligations. \
Program expenses \
\'95 The ABCC has not identified any significant trends, changes or variances in the \
program expenses over the forward years. \
Program 1.1 Deliverables \
Deliverable  2011-12 Target \
Level of satisfaction of clients with quality \
and timeliness of advice and assistance \
provided by the ABCC. \
75 per cent of surveyed clients satisfied or highly \
satisfied \
Timeliness in bringing actions against \
contraventions of the Building and \
Construction Industry Improvement Act \
2005, the Independent Contractors Act \
2006 and the Fair Work Act 2009, \
agreements, awards and orders. \
75 per cent of cases commenced within 18 \
months of receipt of complaint \
Level of satisfaction of a range of industry \
participants with contact aimed at \
promoting appropriate standards of \
conduct. \
75 per cent of surveyed industry participants \
satisfied or highly satisfied \
Program 1.1 Key Performance Indicators \
\'95 The building and construction industry\'92s workplace relations are conducted in a \
lawful manner. The rates of industrial disruption and lawlessness do not depart \
from all industry figures. \
\'95 The industry\'92s workplace relations are fair for all parties and facilitate the \
adoption of more efficient and productive practices. ABCC Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
284 \
Section 3: Explanatory tables and budgeted financial \
statements \
Section 3 presents explanatory tables and budgeted financial statements which provide \
a comprehensive snapshot of agency finances for the 2012-13 budget year. It explains \
how budget plans are incorporated into the financial statements and provides further \
details of the reconciliation between  appropriations and program expenses, \
movements in administered funds, special accounts and government indigenous \
expenditure. \
3.1 EXPLANATORY TABLES\
3.1.1 Movement of administered funds between years \
Administered funds can be provided for a specified period, for example under annual \
Appropriation Acts. Funds not used in the specified period with the agreement of the \
Finance Minister may be moved to a future year. Table 3.1.1 shows the movement of \
administered funds approved between years.  \
Table 3.1.1: Movement of Administered Funds between years \
The ABCC has no Administered funds.  For this reason Table 3.1.1 is not presented. \
3.1.2 Special Accounts \
Special Accounts provide a means to set aside and record amounts used for specified \
purposes. Special Accounts can be created by a Finance Minister\'92s Determination \
under the FMA Act or under separate enabling legislation. Table 3.1.2 shows the \
expected additions (receipts) and reductions (payments) for each account used by the \
ABCC. \
Table 3.1.2: Estimates of Special Account Flows and Balances \
The ABCC has no Special accounts.  For this reason Table 3.1.2 is not presented. \
3.1.3 Australian Government Indigenous Expenditure \
The 2012-13 Australian Government Indigenous Statement is not applicable because \
the ABCC has no indigenous specific expenses.  For this reason Table 3.1.3 is not \
presented. ABCC Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
285 \
3.2 BUDGETED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\
3.2.1 Differences in agency resourcing and financial statements \
The ABCC does not have any significant differences to report. ABCC Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
286 \
3.2.3 Budgeted financial statements tables \
Table 3.2.1 Comprehensive Income Statement (Showing Net Cost of Services) \
(for the period ended 30 June) \
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.\'a0\'a0\
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
EXPENSES\
Employee benefits 17,446                 - -             -             -             \
Suppliers 13,426                 - -             -             -             \
Depreciation and amortisation 1,216                   - -             -             -             \
Total expenses 32,088    -                          - -             -             \
LESS: \
OWN- SOURCE INCOM E\
Own-source revenue\
Other 116                      - -             -             -             \
Total own-source revenue 116         -             -             -             -             \
Net cost of (contribution by)\
s e  r vice  s  (31,972)             - -             -             -             \
Revenue from Government    - 30,756             -             -             -             \
Surplus (Deficit) attributable to\
 the Australian Government (1,216)    -             -             -             -             \
OTHER COM PREHENSIV E INCOM E\
Total comprehensive income (loss)\
 attributable to the Australian \
Government (1,216)    -             -             -             -             \
Note: Impact of Net Cash Apppropriation Arrangements\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Total Comprehensive Income \
(los s )  le s s   de pr e ciation/am  or tis ation\
expenses previously funded through\
revenue appropriations. -                           -               -               -               - \
plus depreciation/amortisation expenses\
previously funded through revenue\
appropriations\
1\
    - (1,216)             -             -             -             \
Total Comprehensive Income \
(loss) - as per the Statement of\
Comprehensive Income     (1,216)              -               -               -               - ABCC Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
287 \
Table 3.2.2: Budgeted Departmental Balance Sheet (as at 30 June) \
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
ASSETS\
Financial assets\
Cash and cash equivalents -          -          -          -          -          \
Trade and other receivables -          -          -          -          -          \
Total financial assets          - -          -          -          -          \
Non-financial assets\
Land and buildings -          -          -          -          -          \
Property, plant and equipment -          -          -          -          -          \
Intangibles -          -          -          -          -          \
Total non-financial assets          - -          -          -          -          \
Total assets          - -          -          -          -          \
LIABILITIES\
Payables\
Suppliers -          -          -          -          -          \
Total payables          - -          -          -          -          \
Provisions\
Employee provisions -          -          -          -          -          \
Other provisions -          -          -          -          -          \
Tota  l   pr ovi si ons          - -          -          -          -          \
Total liabilities          - -          -          -          -          \
Net assets          - -          -          -          -          \
EQUIT Y*\
Parent entity interest\
Contributed equity -          -          -          -          -          \
Retained surplus\
(accumulated deficit) -          -          -          -          -          \
Total parent entity interest          - -          -          -          -          \
Total Equity          - -          -          -          -          \
"Equity" is the residual interest in assets after the deduction of liabilities.\
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.ABCC Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
288 \
Table 3.2.3: Departmental Statement of Changes in Equity \'97 summary of \
movement (Budget year 2012-13) \
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis. \
Retained Asset Other Contributed Total\
earnings revaluation reserves equity/ equity\
reserve capital\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Opening balance as at 1 July 2012\
Balance carried forw ard from\
previous period -      -           -       -           -      \
Adjustment for changes in\
accounting policies -      -           -       -           -      \
Adjusted opening balance      - -           -       -           -      \
Comprehensive income\
Other comprehensive income -      -           -       -           -      \
Surplus (deficit) for the period -      -           -       -           -      \
Total comprehensive income      - -           -       -           -      \
Transactions with owners\
Distributions to owners\
Other  -      -           -       -           -      \
Contributions by owners\
Other -      -           -       -           -      \
Sub-total transactions with owners      - -           -       -           -      \
Transfers betw een equity\
components -      -           -       -           -      \
Estimated closing balance\
as at 30 June 2013      - -           -       -           -      \
Closing balance attributable to the \
Aus  tr alian  Gove  r nm  e  nt      - -           -       -           -      ABCC Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
289 \
Table 3.2.4: Budgeted Departmental Statement of Cash Flows \
(for the period ended 30 June) \
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.\
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
OPERATING ACTIVITIES\
Cas h  r e ce ive d\
Appropriations 30,756     -          -          -          -          \
Other 64            -          -          -          -          \
Total cash received     30,820          - -          -          -          \
Cash used\
Employees 17,908     -          -          -          -          \
Suppliers 13,170     -          -          -          -          \
Total cash used     31,078          - -          -          -          \
Net cash from (used by)\
operating activities (258)                  - -          -          -          \
INVESTING ACTIVITIES\
Cas h  r e ce ive d          - -          -          -          -          \
Total cash received          - -          -          -          -          \
Cash used\
Purchase of property, plant \
and equipment 567          -          -          -          -          \
Total cash used          567          - -          -          -          \
Net cash from (used by)  \
investing activities (567)                  - -          -          -          \
FINANCING ACTIVITIES\
Cas h  r e ce ive d\
Contributed equity 567          -          -          -          -          \
Total cash received          567          - -          -          -          \
Cash used\
Total cash used          - -          -          -          -          \
Net cash from (used by)  \
financing activities 567                    - -          -          -          \
Ne  t  incr e  as e   (de cr e as e )\
in cash held (258)                  - -          -          -          \
Cash and cash equivalents at the\
beginning of the reporting period 258          -          -          -          -          \
Cash and cash equivalents at the \
end of the reporting period          - -          -          -          -          ABCC Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
290 \
Table 3.2.5: Departmental Capital Budget Statement \
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis. \
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
NEW CAPITAL APPROPRIATIONS\
Capital budget - Bill 1 (DCB) 2,454    -           -           -             -              \
Total new capital appropriations 2,454               - -           -             -              \
Provided for:\
Purchase of non-financial assets 2,454    -           -           -             -              \
Total Items 2,454               - -           -             -              \
PURCHASE OF NON- FINANCIAL\
ASSETS\
Funded by capital appropriation - DCB \
1\
         - 567             -             -              -              \
Funded internally from\
departmental resources \
2\
              - -             -             -              -              \
TOTAL 567       -                      - -             -              \
RECONCILIATION OF CASH\
USED TO ACQUIRE ASSETS\
TO  ASSET  M OV EM ENT  TABLE\
Total purchases 567       -           -           -             -              \
Total cash used to\
acquire assets 567                   -           - -             -              \
1\
 Does not include annual finance lease costs.  Include purchase from current and previous\
years' Departmental Capital Budgets (DCBs).\
2\
 Includes the follow ing sources of funding:\
   - current and prior year Bill 1/3/5 appropriations (excluding amounts from the DCB).\
   - donations and contributions\
   - gifts\
   - internally developed assets\
   - s31 relevant agency receipts (for FMA agencies only)\
   - proceeds  from the sale of assetsABCC Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
291 \
Table 3.2.6: Statement of Asset Movements (2012-13) \
Table 3.2.7: Schedule of Budgeted Income and Expenses Administered on behalf \
of Government (for the period ended 30 June) \
The ABCC has no income and expenses administered on behalf of government. For \
this reason Table 3.2.7 is not presented. \
Table 3.2.8: Schedule of Budgeted Assets and Liabilities Administered on behalf \
of Government (as at 30 June) \
The ABCC has no assets and liabilities administered on behalf of government. For this \
reason Table 3.2.8 is not presented. \
Table 3.2.9: Schedule of Budgeted Administered Cash Flows \
(for the period ended 30 June) \
The ABCC has no administered cash flows. For this reason Table 3.2.9 is not presented. \
   \
Bu ildings Other property, Computer To ta l\
plan t and software and\
equipment  in tangibles\
$'000 $'000 $ '000 $'000\
A s a t 1 Ju ly 2 0 12\
Gross book va lue  -  -  -  -\
Accumu la ted dep rec iation/amortisa tion  \
and   impairment  -  -  -  -\
O  p  e  n in g   n e  t   b o o k   b a  la  n  c  e - - - -\
C A  P  IT  A L   A  S  S  ET   A D  D IT  IO  N S\
Es t ima  t e  d   e  xp  e  n d  it u re   o n\
n e  w  o r  re p la c  e me n t   a sse t s\
By purchase  -  appropria tion equity \
1\
- - - -\
By purchase  -  appropria tion ordina ry\
annual se rvices \
2\
- - - -\
By purchase  -  othe r  -  -  -  -\
T o t a  l  a  d d it io n s - - - -\
O  t h e  r  mo  ve  me  n t s\
Deprec ia tion/amo rtisa tion expense  -  -  -  -\
Disposals \
From disposal of entities or operations\
(inc lud ing  restruc turing)  -  -  -  -\
Other  -  -  -  -\
T o t a  l  o t h e  r  mo ve  me  n t s - - - -\
A s   a t   3  0   Ju n e   2 0 13\
Gross book va lue  -  -  -  -\
Accumu la ted dep rec iation/amortisa tion\
and   impairment  -  -  -  -\
C lo s in g   n e  t   b  o o k   b a  la  n  c  e - - - -\
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.ABCC Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
292 \
Table 3.2.10: Schedule of Administered Capital Budget \
The ABCC has no administered capital budget. For this reason Table 3.2.10 is not \
presented. \
Table 3.2.11: Schedule of Asset Movements \'97 Administered  \
The ABCC has no administered assets. For this reason Table 3.2.11 is not presented. \
3.2.4 Notes to the financial statements \
The budgeted financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Finance \
Minister\'92s Orders issued by the Minister for Finance and Deregulation. \
The statements have been prepared: \
\'95 on an accrual accounting basis \
\'95 in compliance with Australian Accounting Standards and Australian Equivalents to \
International Financial Reporting Standards (AEIFRS) and other authoritative \
pronouncements of the Australian Accounting Standards Board and the consensus \
views of the Urgent Issues Group \
\'95 having regard to Statements of Accounting Concepts. \
Departmental revenue from government \
Revenue from government represents the purchase of programs from the ABCC by the \
government. \
Departmental own source revenue \
Revenue from the sale of goods and services is recognised upon the delivery of the \
goods and services to the customers. \
Departmental expenses \'96 employee benefits \
This item represents payments and net increases or decreases in entitlements owed to \
employees for their services rendered in the financial year. \
Departmental expenses - suppliers \
This item represents payments to suppliers for goods and services. \
Departmental expenses \'96 depreciation and amortisation \
Property, plant and equipment assets are written-off to their estimated residual values \
over their estimated useful lives to the ABCC using the straight-line method of \
depreciation. Forward estimates of depreciation expense are made using forecasts of \
net capital acquisitions over the forward years. ABCC Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
293 \
Departmental assets \'96 financial assets - cash \
Cash includes notes and coins held and deposits at call with  a bank or financial \
institution. \
Departmental assets \'96 financial assets - receivables \
Receivables represent amounts owing to the ABCC for cash reserves held in the \
Official Public Account and prepayments. \
Departmental assets \'96 non-financial assets \
These items represent future economic benefits that the ABCC will consume in \
producing outputs. \
Property, plant and equipment and intangibles are brought to account at cost, except \
for purchases costing less than $50,000 for internally developed computer software, \
less than $20,000 for leasehold improvements and less than $2,000 for all other classes, \
which are expensed in the year of acquisition (other than where they form part of a \
group of similar items that are significant in total). \
Following initial recognition at cost property, plant and equipment are carried at fair \
value less accumulated depreciation. Valuations are conducted with sufficient \
frequency to ensure that the carrying amount does not differ materially from the \
assets' fair values at reporting date. \
Departmental liabilities \'96 provisions - employees \
Provision has been made for the ABCC\'92s liability for employee entitlements arising \
from services rendered by employees to  balance date. This liability encompasses \
wages and salaries that are yet to be paid, annual and long service leave. No provision \
is made for sick leave. \
Employee entitlements payable are measured as the present value of the estimated \
future cash outflows to be made in respect of services provided by employees up to the \
reporting date. Liabilities expected to be settled within twelve months are measured at \
the nominal amount. \
Departmental liabilities \'96 payables - suppliers \
Suppliers and other payables are recognised at amortised cost. Liabilities are \
recognised to the extent that the goods or services have been received (and irrespective \
of having been invoiced). OFFICE OF THE FAIR WORK \
BUILDING INDUSTRY \
INSPECTORATE\
(POSITIONAL ONLY) 297 \
OFFICE OF THE FAIR WORK BUILDING INDUSTRY \
INSPECTORATE\
Section 1: Agency overview and resources ........................................................... 299\
1.1 Strategic Direction Statement ....................................................................... 299\
1.2 Agency Resource Statement ........................................................................ 301\
1.3 Budget Measures .......................................................................................... 302 \
Section 2: Outcomes and planned performance ................................................... 303\
2.1 Outcomes and performance information ...................................................... 303\
Section 3: Explanatory tables and budgeted financial statements ..................... 306\
3.1 Explanatory tables ........................................................................................ 306 \
3.2 Budgeted Financial Statements .................................................................... 307 FWBII Budget Statements \'96 Overview & resources \
299 \
OFFICE OF THE FAIR WORK BUILDING INDUSTRY \
INSPECTORATE\
Section 1: Agency overview and resources \
1.1 STRATEGIC DIRECTION STATEMENT\
The Office of the Fair Work Building Industry Inspectorate (FWBII) is an independent \
statutory agency established by the  Fair Work (Building Industry) Act 2012. FWBII \
commenced operations on 1\
st\
  June 2012.  \
In respect of the building and construction industry, FWBII is primarily responsible \
for: \
\'95 the provision of education, assistance and advice to industry participants regarding \
their rights and obligations \
\'95 inquiring into and investigating acts or practices by industry participants \
\'95 commencing civil penalty litigation, or making submissions to Fair Work Australia, \
to enforce compliance by industry participants \
\'95 representing industry participants who are, or may become, a party to court \
proceedings  or  matters  before  Fair  Work  Australia  to  promote  compliance  with \
relevant workplace laws \
\'95 referring matters to relevant authorities where appropriate. \
in relation to: \
\'96 Fair Work (Building Industry) Act 2012 \
\'96 Fair Work Act 2009, the  Fair Work (Transitional Provisions and Consequential \
Amendments) Act 2009 and the Independent Contractors Act 2006\
\'96 safety net contractual entitlements \
\'96 awards, agreements, orders, the Australian Fair Pay and Conditions Standard, a \
fair work instrument and the National Employment Standards, and \
\'96 the National Code of Practice for the Construction Industry.  FWBII Budget Statements \'96 Overview & resources \
300 \
Subject to any Ministerial determinations providing otherwise, FWBII will commence \
operations on, or around, 1 June 2012 in accordance with the  Fair Work (Building \
Industry) Act 2012. The staff, assets, liabilities and Departmental appropriations of the \
Office of the Australian Building and Construction Commissioner (ABCC) will transfer \
to Fair Work Building Industry Inspectorate (FWBII) on the commencement date of the \
Fair Work (Building Industry) Act 2012. \
During 2012-13, FWBII plans to achieve the following outcomes: \
\'95 Enforce workplace relations laws in the building and construction industry and \
ensure compliance with those laws by all participants in the building and \
construction industry through the provision of education, assistance and advice. \
Challenges facing FWBII outcomes during 2012-13 include: \
\'95 promoting awareness of legislative changes applicable to building and construction \
industry participants; \
\'95 maintaining momentum of reform during the transition period to new regulatory \
arrangements and statutory offices. FWBII Budget Statements \'96 Overview & resources \
301 \
1.2 AGENCY RESOURCE STATEMENT\
Table 1.1 shows the total resources from all sources. The table summarises how \
resources will be applied by outcome and by administered and departmental \
classification. \
Table 1.1: Office of the Fair Work Building Industry Inspectorate Resource \
Statement \'97 Budget Estimates for 2012-13 as at Budget May 2012 \
All figures are GST exclusive.\
Estima te Proposed To ta l Ac tual\
of prio r\
+\
at Budget\
=\
estima te available\
year amounts appropria tion\
 available  in\
2012- 13 2012- 13 2012- 13 2011- 12\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
O rd in a ry   a n n u a l  se rv ic e s\
D e  p a  rt me  n t a  l  a  p  p ro  p ria  t io n\
Prio r year departmental appropria tion \
1, 2 & 3\
43,947 30,656 74,603  -                             \
Depa rtmental appropria tion\
4\
                              -  70 70 6\
T o t a  l 4  3 , 9  4 7  3  0 , 7  2 6  7 4  , 6 7  3 6\
T o t a  l  o rd in a ry   a n n u a l  se  rv ic  e s     A  4  3 , 9  4 7  3  0 , 7  2 6 7 4  , 6 7  3 6\
Othe r se rvic e s\
D e  p a  rt me  n t a  l  n o  n -  o  p e  ra  t in g\
Equity  in jec tions  -                                                     -                        -                              -\
T o t a  l  -                  -              -              -                  \
T o  t a  l  o t h  e  r  se  rv ic  e  s   B  -                                 -               -                   -\
T o t a l  a va ila b le   a n n u a l \
a p p ro p ria t io n s  4 3 , 9 4 7  3 0 , 7 2 6  7 4 , 6 7 3  6\
S p e c  ia  l  a p p ro p ria t io n s\
T o t a l  sp e c ia l  a p p ro p ria t io n s  C  -                  -                            -                   -\
T o t a  l  a p p ro p ria t io n s   e  xc lu d in g\
  S p e c  ia  l  A c c  o u n t s  4  3 , 9  4 7  3  0 , 7  2 6  7 4  , 6 7  3  6\
Spe c ia l Ac c ounts\
Opening balance  -                                           -                      - -                             \
Tota l Spe c ia l Ac c ount D -                  -              -              -                  \
T o t a l  re so u rc in g  4 3 , 9 4 7  3 0 , 7 2 6  7 4 , 6 7 3  6\
A+B+C+D\
Less appropria tions drawn  from\
annual or spec ia l appropria tions above  -                             -                       -                      -                             \
and c redited  to  spec ia l accounts  -                             -                       -                      -                             \
and/or CAC Ac t bodies  th rough \
annual appropria tions  -                             -                       -                      -                             \
T o  t a  l  n e  t   re  so u  rc  in g   f o  r  t h  e\
O  f f ic  e   o f   t h e   F  a  ir  W o  rk   B u  ild in g\
In d u s t ry   In sp e c t o ra t e  4 3 , 9 4 7  3 0 , 7 2 6  7 4 , 6 7 3  6\
1 \
Appropriation Bill (No.1) 2012- 13\
2\
 Estima ted adjusted balance ca rried  fo rward  from previous year\
3 \
Inc ludes an amount of $0.676m  in  2012- 13   fo r  the Departmental Capita l Budget  (refer  to   table 3.2.5  fo r\
fu rther details). Fo r accounting purposes  th is amount has been designated as  'contributions by owners'.\
4\
 s31 Re levant Agency  rece ip ts  -  estima teFWBII Budget Statements \'96 Overview & resources \
302 \
1.3 BUDGET MEASURES\
Budget measures relating to the Office of the Fair Work Building Industry Inspectorate \
are detailed in Budget Paper No. 2 and are summarised below.  \
Table 1.2: Office of the Fair Work Building Industry Inspectorate 2012-13 Budget \
measures \
Prepared on a Government Finance Statistics (fiscal) basis.\
Program 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Expe ns e   m  e as ur e s  \
Office of the Fair Work Building Industry \
Inspectorate - operational efficiencies 1.1\
Departmental expenses -           (3,000) (3,000) (3,000) (3,000)\
Total -           (3,000) (3,000) (3,000) (3,000)\
Total  e xpe ns e   m  e as ur e s\
Departmental -           (3,000) (3,000) (3,000) (3,000)\
Total -           (3,000) (3,000) (3,000) (3,000)FWBII Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
303 \
Section 2: Outcomes and planned performance \
2.1 OUTCOMES AND PERFORMANCE INFORMATION\
Government outcomes are the intended results, impacts or consequences of actions by \
the Government on the Australian community. Commonwealth programs are the \
primary vehicle by which government agencies achieve the intended results of their \
outcome statements. Agencies are required to identify the programs which contribute \
to Government outcomes over the Budget and forward years. \
Each outcome is described below together with its related programs, specifying the \
performance indicators and targets used  to assess and monitor the performance of \
FWBII in achieving Government outcomes. \
Outcome 1:  Enforce workplace relations laws in the building and construction \
industry and ensure compliance with those laws by all participants in the \
building and construction industry through the provision of education, \
assistance and advice. \
Outcome 1 Strategy \
Key strategies towards achieving FWBII\'92s outcome in 2012-13 are to: \
\'95 provide education, assistance and advice to industry participants \
\'95 conduct targeted educational and compliance campaigns \
\'95 conduct investigations into alleged breaches of workplace laws \
\'95 commence civil penalty litigation \
\'95 provide ready-access to information on relevant workplace laws and codes of \
practice FWBII Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
304 \
Outcome Expense Statement \
Table 2.1 provides an overview of the total expenses for outcome 1 by program. \
Table 2.1: Budgeted Expenses for Outcome 1 \
2011-12 2012-13\
Estimated Estimated\
actual expenses\
expenses\
$'000 $'000\
Program 1.1: Education, advice and compliance functions\
Departmental expenses\
Departmental appropriation \
1\
2,802 30,050\
Expenses not requiring appropriation in the Budget year \
2\
115 1,687\
Total for Program 1.1 2,917 31,737\
Outcome 1 Totals by appropriation type\
Departmental expenses\
Departmental appropriation \
1\
2,802 30,050\
Expenses not requiring appropriation in the Budget year \
2\
115 1,687\
Total expenses for Outcome 1 2,917 31,737\
2011-12 2012-13\
Average Staffing Level (number) \
3\
                    -               155\
1  \
Departmental Appropria tion comb ines  "Ord inary annual se rvices  (Appropria tion Bill No. 1)" and  "Revenue  from \
independent sources  (s31)"  .\
2 \
Expenses not  requiring appropria tion  in   the Budget year  is made up of Deprec ia tion Expense, Amortisa tion \
Expense, Makegood Expense, Audit Fees.\
Outcome 1:  Enforce workplace relations laws in the building \
and construction industry and ensure compliance w ith those \
laws by all participants in the building and construction industry \
through the provision of education, assistance and advice.\
3 \
On 1 June 2012  the ABCC was abolished and new a new agency was c reated  in   its place. Although  the FWBII \
was operational with  staff  in  2011- 12   the ASL count  is shown against ABCC.\
No te : Departmental appropria tion sp lits and  to ta ls are  indica tive  estima tes and may change  in   the course  of  the \
budget year as Gove rnment prio rities change.FWBII Budget Statements \'96 Outcomes & performance \
305 \
Contributions to Outcome 1 \
Program 1.1: Education, Advice and Compliance Functions \
Program objective \
Enforce workplace relations laws in the  building and construction industry and \
ensure compliance with those laws by all participants in the building and \
construction industry through the provision of education, assistance and advice. \
Program expenses \
FWBII has not identified any significant trends, changes or variances in the program \
expenses over the forward years. \
Program 1.1 Deliverables \
The deliverables of FWBII are to: \
\'95 Promote awareness of, and compliance with, workplace laws by all participants of the \
building and construction industry. \
\'95 Investigate alleged breaches of workplace laws and undertake targeted educational and \
compliance activities. \
\'95 Litigate, where necessary, to enforce compliance with workplace laws. \
KPI  2012-13 Target \
Level of satisfaction of clients with quality and \
timeliness of advice and assistance provided \
by FWBII.   \
75 per cent of surveyed clients satisfied or \
highly satisfied. \
Timeliness in bringing actions against \
contraventions of the Fair Work Act 2009, the \
Independent Contractors Act 2006, \
agreements, awards and orders. \
File 75% of matters in court within 18 months \
of the complaint  being lodged. \
Level of satisfaction of a range of industry \
participants with contact aimed at promoting \
appropriate standards of conduct. \
75 per cent of cases commenced within 18 \
months of receipt of complaint. FWBII Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
306 \
Section 3: Explanatory tables and budgeted financial \
statements \
Section 3 presents explanatory tables and budgeted financial statements which provide \
a comprehensive snapshot of agency finances for the 2012-13 budget year. It explains \
how budget plans are incorporated into the financial statements and provides further \
details of the reconciliation between  appropriations and program expenses, \
movements in administered funds, special accounts and government indigenous \
expenditure. \
3.1 EXPLANATORY TABLES\
3.1.1 Movement of administered funds between years \
Administered funds can be provided for a specified period, for example under annual \
Appropriation Acts. Funds not used in the specified period with the agreement of the \
Finance Minister may be moved to a future year. Table 3.1.1 shows the movement of \
administered funds approved between years.  \
Table 3.1.1: Movement of Administered Funds between years \
FWBII has no Administered funds.  For this reason Table 3.1.1 is not presented. \
3.1.2 Special Accounts \
Special Accounts provide a means to set aside and record amounts used for specified \
purposes. Special Accounts can be created by a Finance Minister\'92s Determination \
under the FMA Act or under separate enabling legislation. Table 3.1.2 shows the \
expected additions (receipts) and reductions (payments) for each account used by \
FWBII. \
Table 3.1.2: Estimates of Special Account Flows and Balances \
FWBII has no Special accounts.  For this reason Table 3.1.2 is not presented. \
3.1.3 Australian Government Indigenous Expenditure \
The 2012-13 Australian Government Indigenous Statement is not applicable because \
FWBII has no indigenous specific expenses.  For this reason Table 3.1.3 is not \
presented.FWBII Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
307 \
3.2 BUDGETED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\
3.2.1 Differences in agency resourcing and financial statements \
FWBII does not have any significant differences to report.  \
3.2.2 Analysis of budgeted financial statements \
An analysis of FWBII\'92s budgeted financial statements for 2012-13 is provided below. \
Comprehensive income statement \
FWBII is budgeting for a deficit equal to the unappropriated depreciation and \
amortisation expense in 2012-13 and the three forward years. \
Total expenses for 2012-13 is estimated to be $31.8 million.  \
Budgeted departmental balance sheet \
FWBII has a budgeted net asset position of $36.5 million in 2012-13. \
Total assets for 2012-13 are estimated to be $43.5 million comprising $38.8 million of \
financial assets and $4.7 million in non-financial assets. \
Total liabilities for 2012-13 are estimated to be $7.0 million with the primary liabilities \
being accrued employee entitlements which total $3.0 million, supplier payables of \
$1.1 million and lease incentives of $2.9 million. FWBII Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
308 \
3.2.3 Budgeted financial statements tables \
Table 3.2.1 Comprehensive Income Statement (Showing Net Cost of Services) \
(for the period ended 30 June) \
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.\'a0\'a0\
1\
From 2010\uc0\u8208 11, the Government introduced net cash appropriation arrangements where Bill 1 revenue\
appropriations for the depreciation/amortisation expenses of FMA Act agencies were replaced with a\
separate capital budget (the Departmental Capital Budget, or DCB) provided through Bill 1 equity\
appropriations.\'a0\'a0For information regarding DCBs, please refer to Table 3.2.5 Departmental Capital Budget\
Statement.\
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
EXPENSES\
Employee benefits 1,586      19,524    20,001    20,587    21,292    \
Suppliers 1,221      10,584    10,461    10,182    9,868      \
Depreciation and amortisation 110         1,629      1,477      1,527      2,472      \
Total expenses 2,917      31,737    31,939    32,296    33,632    \
LESS: \
OWN- SOURCE INCOM E\
Other 11           128         129         128         122         \
Total own-source revenue 11           128         129         128         122         \
Net cost of (contribution by)\
services (2,906)    (31,609)  (31,810)  (32,168)  (33,510)  \
Revenue from Government 2,796      29,980    30,333    30,641    31,038    \
Surplus (Deficit) attributable to\
 the Australian Government (110)       (1,629)    (1,477)    (1,527)    (2,472)    \
OTHER COM PREHENSIV E INCOM E\
Total comprehensive income (loss)\
 attributable to the Australian \
Government (110)       (1,629)    (1,477)    (1,527)    (2,472)    \
Note: Impact of Net Cash Apppropriation Arrangements\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Total Comprehensive Income \
(los s )  le s s   de pr e ciation/am  or tis ation\
expenses previously funded through\
revenue appropriations. -             -             -             -             -             \
plus depreciation/amortisation expenses\
previously funded through revenue\
appropriations\
1\
        (110)     (1,629)     (1,477)     (1,527)     (2,472)\
Total Comprehensive Income \
(loss) - as per the Statement of\
Comprehensive Income        (110)     (1,629)     (1,477)     (1,527)     (2,472)FWBII Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
309 \
Table 3.2.2: Budgeted Departmental Balance Sheet (as at 30 June) \
*'Equity' is the residual interest in assets after deduction of liabilities.\
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.\
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
ASSETS\
Financial assets\
Cash and cash equivalents 121 316 617 619 701\
Trade and other receivables 39,651 38,446 38,183 38,249 33,320\
Total financial assets 39,772 38,762 38,800 38,868 34,021\
Non-financial assets\
Land and buildings 3,360 2,476 1,662 717 3,505\
Property, plant and equipment 237 194 102 389 245\
Intangibles 596 1,561 1,150 750 350\
Other non-financial assets 415 414 415 415 415\
Total non-financial assets 4,608 4,645 3,329 2,271 4,515\
Total assets 44,380 43,407 42,129 41,139 38,536\
LIABILITIES\
Payables\
Suppliers 1,058 1,058 1,058 1,058 1,058\
Total payables 1,058 1,058 1,058 1,058 1,058\
Provisions\
Employee provisions 2,961 2,961 2,961 2,961 2,961\
Other provisions 2,914 2,894 2,975 3,065 2,482\
Tota  l   pr ovi si ons 5,875 5,855 5,936 6,026 5,443\
Total liabilities 6,933 6,913 6,994 7,084 6,501\
Net assets 37,447 36,494 35,135 34,055 32,035\
EQUIT Y*\
Parent entity interest\
Contributed equity 3,942 4,618 4,736 5,183 5,635\
Retained surplus\
(accumulated deficit) 33,505 31,876 30,399 28,872 26,400\
Total parent entity interest 37,447 36,494 35,135 34,055 32,035\
Total Equity 37,447 36,494 35,135 34,055 32,035FWBII Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
310 \
Table 3.2.3: Departmental Statement of Changes in Equity \'97 summary of \
movement (Budget year 2012-13) \
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.\
Retained Asset Other Contributed Total\
earnings revaluation reserves equity/ equity\
reserve capital\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Opening balance as at 1 July 2012\
Balance carried forw ard from\
previous period 33,505 -           -       3,942 37,447\
Adjusted opening balance 33,505 -           -       3,942 37,447\
Comprehensive income\
Surplus (deficit) for the period  (1,629) (1,629)\
Total comprehensive income  (1,629)           - -       -            (1,629)\
Transactions with owners\
Distributions to owners\
Other  -      -           -       -           -      \
Contributions by owners\
Departmental Capital Budget (DCBs) -      -           -       676 676\
Other -      -           -       -           -      \
Sub-total transactions with owners      - -           -        676 676\
Transfers betw een equity\
components -      -           -       -           -      \
Estimated closing balance\
as at 30 June 2013 31,876 -           -       4,618 36,494\
Closing balance attributable to the \
Australian Government 31,876 -           -       4,618 36,494FWBII Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
311 \
Table 3.2.4: Budgeted Departmental Statement of Cash Flows              \
 (for the period ended 30 June) \
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.\
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
OPERATING ACTIVITIES\
Cas h  r e ce ive d\
Appropriations 2,796 29,980 30,333 30,641 31,038\
Other  6 70 70  70  70\
Total cash received 2,802 30,050 30,403 30,711 31,108\
Cash used\
Employees 1,628 18,804 19,166 19,720 21,043\
Suppliers 1,053 11,049 10,936 10,988 6,554\
Total cash used 2,681 29,853 30,102 30,708 27,597\
Net cash from (used by)\
operating activities 121          197 301 3 3,511\
INVESTING ACTIVITIES\
Cas h  r e ce ive d          - -          -          -          -          \
Total cash received          - -          -          -          -          \
Cash used\
Purchase of property, plant \
and equipment -          1,667 160 469 4,716\
Total cash used          - 1,667 160 469 4,716\
Net cash from (used by)  \
investing activities              -     (160) (1,667)        (469)        (4,716)     \
FINANCING ACTIVITIES\
Cas h  r e ce ive d\
Contributed equity -          1,665 160 468 1,287\
Total cash received          - 1,665 160 468 1,287\
Cash used\
Total cash used          - -          -          -          -          \
Net cash from (used by)  \
financing activities          - 1,665 160 468 1,287\
Ne  t  incr e  as e   (de cr e as e )\
in cash held 121 195 301 2 82\
Cash and cash equivalents at the\
beginning of the reporting period -          121 316 617 619\
Cash and cash equivalents at the \
end of the reporting period 121 316 617 619 701FWBII Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
312 \
Table 3.2.5: Departmental Capital Budget Statement \
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
NEW CAPITAL APPROPRIATIONS\
Capital budget - Bill 1 (DCB) -            676       118       447        452          \
Total new capital appropriations            -       118 676       447        452          \
Provided for:\
Purchase of non-financial assets -            676       118       447        452          \
Total Items            -       118 676       447        452          \
PURCHASE OF NON- FINANCIAL\
ASSETS\
Funded by capital appropriation - DCB \
1\
              1,665 -      160         468         1,287       \
Funded internally from\
departmental resources \
2\
              2 -             -             1             3,429       \
TOTAL            -    160 1,667       469        4,716       \
RECONCILIATION OF CASH\
USED TO ACQUIRE ASSETS\
TO  ASSET  M OV EM ENT  TABLE\
Total purchases -            1,667    160       469        4,716       \
Total cash used to\
acquire assets -            1,667    160       469        4,716       \
Prepared on an Australian Accounting Standards basis.\
1\
 Does not include annual finance lease costs.  Include purchase from current and previous\
years' Departmental Capital Budgets  (DCBs).\
2\
 Includes the following sources of funding:\
   - current and prior year Bill 1/ 3 / 5 appropriat io ns  (excluding amounts  from t he D C B  ).\
   - donations and contributions\
   - gifts\
   - internally develo ped  as s ets\
   - s31 relevant agency receipts (for FM A agencies only)\
   - proceeds  fro m t he sale of  as s etsFWBII Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
313 \
Table 3.2.6: Statement of Asset Movements (2012-13) \
Bu ild ings Other property, Computer To ta l\
plant and so ftwa re  and\
equipment  in tangibles\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
As a t 1 July 2 0 12\
Gross book va lue 9,105 561 1,294 10 ,960\
Accumu la ted deprec ia tion/amortisa tion \
and  impairment  (5 ,745)  (324)  (698)  (6 ,767)\
O  p e  n in g   n  e  t   b o  o k   b a  la  n c  e  3  ,  3  6  0  2  3  7  5  9  6  4  ,  19  3\
C A P  IT  A L   A S  S  ET   A D D IT  IO  N S\
Es t ima  t e  d   e  xp e  n d it u re   o n\
n e  w  o r  re  p la c  e me n t   a  sse t s\
By purchase  -  appropria tion equity \
1\
88 79 1,500 1,667\
By purchase  -  appropria tion ordinary\
annual se rvices \
2\
- - - -\
By purchase  -  other  -  -  -  -\
T o t a  l  a  d  d it io  n s 8 8  7 9  1, 5 0  0  1, 6 6  7\
O  t h e  r  mo ve  me  n t s\
Deprec ia tion/amortisa tion expense  (972)  (122)  (535)  (1,629)\
Disposals \
From disposal of entities or operations  -  -  -  -\
(inc luding  restruc turing)\
Other  -  -  -\
T o t a l  o t h e r  mo ve me n t s  ( 9 7 2 )  ( 12 2 )  ( 5 3 5 )  ( 1, 6 2 9 )\
A s  a t   3 0   Ju n e   2  0 13\
Gross book va lue 9 ,193 640 2,794 12 ,627\
Accumu la ted deprec ia tion/amortisa tion\
and  impairment  (6 ,717 )  (446)  (1,233)  (8 ,396)\
C lo s in g   n  e  t   b o  o k   b a  la  n c  e  2  ,  4  7  6  19  4  1,  5  6  1  4  ,  2  3  1\
Prepared on an Australian Accounting Standards basis.\
1\
 "Appropriation equity" refers to equity injections or Administered Assets and Liabilities \
appropriations provided through Appropriation Bill (No.2) 2012-13, including CDABs.\
2\
 "Appropriation ordinary annual services" refers to funding provided through Appropriation Bill (No.1) \
2012-13 for depreciation / amortisation expenses, DCBs or other operational expenses. FWBII Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
314 \
Table 3.2.7: Schedule of budgeted income and expenses administered on behalf \
of Government (for the period ended 30 June) \
FWBII has no income and expenses administered on behalf of government. For this \
reason Table 3.2.7 is not presented. \
Table 3.2.8: Schedule of budgeted assets and liabilities administered on behalf \
of Government (as at 30 June) \
FWBII has no assets and liabilities administered on behalf of government. For this \
reason Table 3.2.8 is not presented. \
Table 3.2.9: Schedule of budgeted administered cash flows \
(for the period ended 30 June) \
FWBII has no administered cash flows. For this reason Table 3.2.9 is not presented. \
Table 3.2.10: Schedule of Administered Capital Budget \
FWBII has no administered capital budget. For this reason Table 3.2.10 is not \
presented. \
Table 3.2.11: Schedule of Asset Movements \'97 Administered  \
FWBII has no administered assets. For this reason Table 3.2.11 is not presented. FWBII Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
315 \
3.2.4 Notes to the financial statements \
The budgeted financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Finance \
Minister\'92s Orders issued by the Minister for Finance and Deregulation. \
The statements have been prepared: \
\'95 on an accrual accounting basis \
\'95 in compliance with Australian Accounting Standards and Australian Equivalents to \
International Financial Reporting Standards (AEIFRS) and other authoritative \
pronouncements of the Australian Accounting Standards Board and the consensus \
views of the Urgent Issues Group \
\'95 having regard to Statements of Accounting Concepts. \
Departmental revenue from government \
Revenue from government represents the purchase of programs from FWBII by the \
government. \
Departmental own source revenue \
Revenue from the sale of goods and services is recognised upon the delivery of the \
goods and services to the customers. \
Departmental expenses \'96 employee benefits \
This item represents payments and net increases or decreases in entitlements owed to \
employees for their services rendered in the financial year. \
Departmental expenses - suppliers \
This item represents payments to suppliers for goods and services. \
Departmental expenses \'96 depreciation and amortisation \
Property, plant and equipment assets are written-off to their estimated residual values \
over their estimated useful lives to FWBII using the straight-line method of \
depreciation. Forward estimates of depreciation expense are made using forecasts of \
net capital acquisitions over the forward years. \
Departmental assets \'96 financial assets - cash \
Cash includes notes and coins held and deposits at call with  a bank or financial \
institution. \
Departmental assets \'96 financial assets - receivables \
Receivables represent amounts owing to FWBII for cash reserves held in the Official \
Public Account and prepayments. FWBII Budget Statements \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
316 \
Departmental assets \'96 non-financial assets \
These items represent future economic benefits that FWBII will consume in producing \
outputs. \
Property, plant and equipment and intangibles are brought to account at cost, except \
for purchases costing less than $50,000 for internally developed computer software, \
less than $20,000 for leasehold improvements and less than $2,000 for all other classes, \
which are expensed in the year of acquisition (other than where they form part of a \
group of similar items that are significant in total). \
Following initial recognition at cost property, plant and equipment are carried at fair \
value less accumulated depreciation. Valuations are conducted with sufficient \
frequency to ensure that the carrying amount does not differ materially from the \
assets' fair values at reporting date. \
Departmental liabilities \'96 provisions - employees \
Provision has been made for FWBII\'92s liability for employee entitlements arising from \
services rendered by employees to balance date. This liability encompasses wages and \
salaries that are yet to be paid, annual and long service leave. No provision is made for \
sick leave. \
Employee entitlements payable are measured as the present value of the estimated \
future cash outflows to be made in respect of services provided by employees up to the \
reporting date. Liabilities expected to be settled within twelve months are measured at \
the nominal amount. \
Departmental liabilities \'96 payables - suppliers \
Suppliers and other payables are recognised at amortised cost. Liabilities are \
recognised to the extent that the goods or services have been received (and irrespective \
of having been invoiced). 317 \
SAFE WORK AUSTRALIA\
(POSITIONAL ONLY) 319 \
SAFE WORK AUSTRALIA\
Section 1: Agency overview and resources ........................................................... 321\
1.1 Strategic Direction Statement ....................................................................... 321\
1.2 Agency Resource Statement ........................................................................ 323\
1.3 Budget Measures .......................................................................................... 324 \
Section 2: Outcomes and planned performance ................................................... 325\
2.1 Outcomes and performance information ...................................................... 325\
Section 3: Explanatory tables and budgeted financial statements ..................... 330\
3.1 Explanatory tables ........................................................................................ 330 \
3.2 Budgeted Financial Statements .................................................................... 331 Safe Work Australia \'96 Overview & resources \
321 \
SAFE WORK AUSTRALIA\
Section 1: Agency overview and resources \
1.1 STRATEGIC DIRECTION STATEMENT\
Safe Work Australia was initially established as an Executive Agency on 1 July 2009 \
under section 65 of the Public Service Act 1999 and was transferred from the Portfolio \
Department. The Executive Agency was abolished and Safe Work Australia was \
established as a Statutory Agency on 1 November 2009 under the Safe Work Australia \
Act 2008  (the Act). The agency operates under the Commonwealth Government's \
accountability and governance frameworks. \
Safe Work Australia is the principal national body leading the development of policy \
to improve work health and safety and workers\'92 compensation arrangements across \
Australia. It is responsible for coordinating and developing national policy and \
strategies, assisting with the implementation of model work health and safety \
legislation and reforming the legislative framework, undertaking research, and \
collecting, analysing and reporting data. In doing this, Safe Work Australia works \
collaboratively with the community, industry and worker associations and regulators \
to realise the national vision of healthier, safer and more productive workplaces. \
The establishment of Safe Work Australia was provided for in the Intergovernmental \
Agreement for Regulatory and Operational Reform in Occupational Health and Safety, agreed \
by the Council of Australian Governments (COAG) on 3 July 2008. Safe Work \
Australia replaced the Australian Safety  and Compensation Council which operated \
within the Department of Education, Employment and Workplace Relations. The \
Australian Government retains the functions specific to implementation of harmonised \
work health and safety practices within its jurisdiction. \
The agency is jointly funded by the Commonwealth, state and territory governments.  \
This funding arrangement promotes collaboration with jurisdictions on policy \
development, implementation, compliance and enforcement, and communication \
activities. \
Safe Work Australia has 15 members, including an independent Chair, nine members \
representing the Commonwealth and each state and territory, two members \
representing the interests of workers, two representing the interests of employers and \
the Chief Executive Officer of Safe Work Australia (CEO). \
The CEO manages the agency under section 45 of the Act and in accordance with the \
Financial Management and Accountability Act 1997. Safe Work Australia \'96 Overview & resources \
322 \
Together, the Safe Work Australia Members and the agency work to achieve: \
\'95 significant and continual reductions in the incidence of work-related death, injury \
and illness through \
\'96 reduced exposure to work-related hazards causing injury and illness  \
\'96 improved quality of workplace controls, and \
\'96 an improved work health and safety infrastructure including legislative reform, \
increased work health and safety knowledge and skills, and an evidence base \
which informs policy and practice  \
\'95 improved outcomes for injured workers and their employers through more \
equitable, effective, efficient, clearly understood and sustainable workers\'92 \
compensation arrangements. \
The focus of Safe Work Australia during 2012-2013 will be on: \
\'95 completing Codes of Practice to support the model work health and safety laws \
\'95 monitoring and evaluating the implementation of the model work health and safety \
laws across Australia \
\'95 supporting ongoing work health and safety reform to promote continuous \
improvements in performance and reductions in red tape   \
\'95 commencing implementation of the Australian Work Health and Safety Strategy \
2012-2022  \
\'95 continuing to implement the National Workers\'92 Compensation Action Plan 2010 \'96 \
2013, and \
\'95 developing and implementing the National Research, Evaluation and Data \
Strategy. \
The challenge for Safe Work Australia will be in achieving these outcomes in a \
changing operational environment. Safe Work Australia \'96 Overview & resources \
323 \
1.2 AGENCY RESOURCE STATEMENT\
Table 1.1 shows the total resources from all sources. The table summarises how \
resources will be applied by outcome and by departmental classification. \
Table 1.1: Safe Work Australia Resource Statement \'97 Budget \
Estimates for 2012-13 as at Budget May 2012 \
Estima te Proposed To ta l Ac tual\
of prio r\
+\
at Budget\
=\
estima te available\
year amounts appropria tion\
 available  in\
2012- 13 2012- 13 2012- 13 2011- 12\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
O rd in a ry   a n n u a l  se rv ic e s\
1\
D e  p a  rt me  n t a  l  a  p  p ro  p ria  t io n\
Depa rtmental appropria tion\
2\
- 9,293 9,293 8,932\
T o t a  l -  9 , 2  9 3  9  , 2 9  3 8  , 9 3 2\
T o t a  l  o rd in a ry   a n n u a l  se  rv ic  e s     -  9 , 2  9 3 9 , 2 9 3 8  , 9 3 2\
T o  t a  l  o t h  e  r  se  rv ic  e  s   - - - -\
T o t a l  a va ila b le   a n n u a l \
a  p p ro p ria  t io n s  -  9 , 2  9 3  9  , 2 9  3  8  , 9 3 2\
T o t a l  sp e c ia l  a p p ro p ria t io n s  - - - -\
T o t a  l  a p p ro p ria t io n s   e  xc lu d in g\
  S p e c  ia  l  A c c  o u n t s  -  9 , 2  9 3  9  , 2 9  3  8  , 9 3 2\
Spe c ia l Ac c ounts\
Opening balance\
3\
- 6 ,422 6,422 8,507\
Appropria tion  rece ip ts\
4\
- 9 ,293 9,293 8,932\
Non- appropria tion  rece ip ts  to\
 Spec ia l Accounts  - 9,617 9 ,617 9,313\
T o t a l  S p e c ia l  A c c o u n t   -  2 5 , 3 3 2  2 5 , 3 3 2  2 6 , 7 5 2\
T o  t a  l  re  so  u rc  in  g - 3  4 , 6  2 5  3 4  , 6 2  5  3 5  , 6  8 4\
Less appropria tions drawn  from\
annual or spec ia l appropria tions above  -                             -                       -                      -                             \
and c redited  to  spec ia l accounts  -                             -                       -                      -                             \
and/or CAC Ac t bodies  th rough  -                             -                       -                      -                             \
annual appropria tions  -  -  -  -\
T o  t a  l  n e  t   re  so u  rc  in g   f o  r  S  a  f e   W o rk  \
A u s t ra lia  -  2  5 , 3  3 2  2 5  , 3 3  2  2 6  , 7  5 2\
1 \
Appropriation Bill (No.1) 2012- 13\
3 \
Estima ted opening balance  fo r spec ia l accounts  (less  \'91 Spec ia l Public  Money\'92  held  in  accounts  like\
4 \
Appropria tion  rece ip ts  from Sa fe  Wo rk Austra lia  annual appropria tions  fo r 2012- 13   inc luded above\
Reader note: All  figures are GST exc lusive.\
2\
    Inc ludes an amount of $0.051m  in  2012- 13   fo r  the Departmental Capita l Budget  (refer  to   table 3.2.5  fo r  fu rther \
details). Fo r accounting purposes  th is amount has been designated as  'contributions by owners'.Safe Work Australia \'96 Overview & resources \
324 \
1.3 BUDGET MEASURES\
Safe Work Australia does not have any new measures since the 2011-12 Budget.  For \
this reason Table 1.2 is not presented. Safe Work Australia \'96 Outcomes & performance \
325 \
Section 2: Outcomes and planned performance \
2.1 OUTCOMES AND PERFORMANCE INFORMATION\
Government outcomes are the intended results, impacts or consequences of actions by \
the Government on the Australian community. Commonwealth programs are the \
primary vehicle by which government agencies achieve the intended results of their \
outcome statements. Agencies are required to identify the programs which contribute \
to Government outcomes over the Budget and forward years. \
Each outcome is described below together with its related programs, specifying the \
performance indicators and targets used to assess and monitor the performance of Safe \
Work Australia in achieving Government outcomes. \
Outcome 1: Safer and more productive Australian workplaces through \
harmonising national occupational health and safety and workers\'92 \
compensation arrangements.\
Outcome 1 Strategy \
Safe Work Australia works in partnership with representatives of the Commonwealth, \
state and territory governments, employees and employers so that: \
\'95 strategic national work health and safety policy and practice is supported by the \
activities of the Australian Work Health and Safety Strategy 2012-2022 \
\'95 Australia has harmonised and improved work health and safety laws that provide \
a consistent, equitable and high level of protection to all workers \
\'95 the national work health and safety research and data program supports evidence \
informed policy, programs and practice  \
\'95 community awareness and knowledge of work health and safety is increased  \
\'95 assistance is provided to other policy agencies to promote consistent and improved \
approaches to managing health and safety hazards and risks, and \
\'95 opportunities for improvements in workers\'92 compensation arrangements are \
identified and assessed particularly for employers with workers in more than one \
jurisdiction.  Safe Work Australia \'96 Outcomes & performance \
326 \
Outcome 1 Expense Statement \
Table 2.1 provides an overview of the total expenses for Outcome 1. \
Table 2.1: Budgeted Expenses for Outcome 1 \
2011-12 2012-13\
Estimated Estimated\
actual expenses\
expenses\
$'000 $'000\
Program 1: Education Services and Compliance Activities\
Departmental Expenses\
Departmental appropriation \
1\
            9,242 8,932            \
Special Accounts 11,656          9,617\
Expenses not requiring appropriation in the Budget year \
2\
               543 492               \
Total for Program 1 21,080          19,402          \
Outcome 1 Totals by appropriation type\
Departmental expenses\
Departmental appropriation \
1\
8,932 9,242\
Special Accounts 11,656 9,617\
Expenses not requiring appropriation in the Budget year \
2\
492 543\
Total expenses for Outcome 1 21,080 19,402\
2011-12 2012-13\
Average Staffing Level (number) 110               110               \
Outcome 1: Safer and more productive Australian w orkplaces \
through harmonising national occupational health and safety \
and  w  or k e r s \'92  com  pe ns ation  ar r ange m  e nts .\
1  \
Departmental Appropriation combines "Ordinary annual servic es (Appropriation Bill No. 1) " and "Revenue from \
2\
Expenses not  requiring appropriation in the Budget year is made up of Depreciation Expense, Amortisation \
Expense and Audit FeesSafe Work Australia \'96 Outcomes & performance \
327 \
Contributions to Outcome 1\
Program 1: Reform of and improvements to Australian work health and safety \
and workers\'92 compensation arrangements. \
Program 1 Objective \
The objective of Safe Work Australia is to monitor and evaluate harmonised laws, \
coordinate and develop national policy and strategies, undertake research and \
collect, analyse and report data to improve work health and safety and workers\'92 \
compensation arrangements in Australia. \
To be able to meet its objectives, Safe Work Australia works  collaboratively with \
regulators, industry and worker associations and the community to achieve \
healthier, safer and more productive workplaces. \
The Act prescribes that Safe Work Australia performs its functions in accordance \
with its Strategic and Operational plans.  These plans are approved by Safe Work \
Australia Members and the Select Council on Workplace Relations. \
Program 1 Expenses \
The work of the agency continues to focus on the objectives of Program 1 and as \
prescribed by legislation. The agency has  not identified any significant trends or \
variances over the forward years. Safe Work Australia \'96 Outcomes & performance \
328 \
Table 2.2 Budgeted Expenses for Program 1 \
Program 1 Deliverables \
The deliverables for Safe Work Australia are highlighted in its operational plan and \
include: \
\'95 completion of the Codes of Practice to support the model work health and safety \
laws \
\'95 assistance with the implementation and evaluation of the model work health and \
safety laws \
\'95 policy proposals to support reform of the work health and safety legislative \
framework  \
\'95 implementation of the Australian Work Health and Safety Strategy 2012 -2022  \
\'95 implementation of the National Workers\'92 Compensation Action Plan 2010 \'96 2013, \
and \
\'95 development and implementation of the National Research, Evaluation and Data \
Strategy. \
Program 1 Key Performance Indicators \
The Key Performance Indicators are framed around how the agency works to achieve \
the key deliverables in the Safe Work Australia Strategic and Operational Plans. \
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
Revised Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
budget year 1 year 2 year 3\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Special Account Expenses: \
Safe Work Australia Special Account (D) 11,656 9,617 9,863 10,104 10,192\
Annual departmental expenses:\
Ordinary annual services (Appropriation \
Bill No. 1) 8,932 9,242 9,489 9,732 9,818\
Expenses not requiring appropriation in\
the Budget year \
1\
492 543 525 472 446\
Total program expenses 21,080 19,402 19,877 20,308 20,456\
(D) = Departmnental\
1\
 Expenses not requiring appropriation in the Budget year is made up of Depreciation Expense,\
 Amortisation Expense, and Audit Fees.Safe Work Australia \'96 Outcomes & performance \
329 \
Key Performance Indicators \
Quality 2012-13 Estimate \
Model legislation continues to be developed \
in accordance with COAG timelines \
COAG agreed timelines are met \
Level of satisfaction of the Chair of Safe \
Work Australia with how the services of the \
Agency are directed at achieving the \
outcomes of its Strategic and Operational \
Plans. \
Very good or above \
Level of satisfaction of the members of Safe \
Work Australia with how the services of the \
Agency are directed at achieving the \
outcomes of its Strategic and Operational \
Plans. \
80% of members agree the services of the \
Agency are appropriately directed at achieving \
the outcomes. Safe Work Australia \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
330 \
Section 3: Explanatory tables and budgeted financial \
statements \
Section 3 presents explanatory tables and budgeted financial statements which provide \
a comprehensive snapshot of agency finances for the 2012-13 budget year. It explains \
how budget plans are incorporated into the financial statements and provides further \
details of the reconciliation between  appropriations and program expenses, \
movements in administered funds, special accounts and government indigenous \
expenditure. \
3.1 EXPLANATORY TABLES\
3.1.1 Special Accounts \
Special Accounts provide a means to set aside and record amounts used for specified \
purposes. Special Accounts can be created by a Finance Minister\'92s Determination \
under the FMA Act or under separate enabling legislation. Table 3.1.2 shows the \
expected additions (receipts) and reductions (payments) for each account used by Safe \
Work Australia. \
Table 3.1.1: Estimates of Special Account Flows and Balances \
(D) = Departmental\
3.1.2  Australian Government Indigenous Expenditure \
The 2012-13 Australian Government Indigenous Statement is not applicable because \
Safe Work Australia has no Indigenous specific expenses. \
Opening Closing\
balance Receipts Payments Adjustments balance\
2012-13 2012-13 2012-13 2012-13 2012-13\
2011-12 2011-12 2011-12 2011-12 2011-12\
Outcome $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Safe Work Australia Special \
Account (D)\
     19,872 6,422   (19,487)  - 6,807     \
    19,340 8,507   (21,425)  - 6,422    \
Total Special Accounts \
2012-13 Budget estimate 6,422     19,872   (19,487)  - 6,807     \
Total Special Accounts\
2011-12 estimate actual 8,507    19,340   (21,425)  - 6,422    Safe Work Australia \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
331 \
3.2 BUDGETED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\
3.2.1 Differences in agency resourcing and financial statements \
The agency receives funds from states and territories and matched appropriation \
funding from the Commonwealth as provided for in the Intergovernmental \
Agreement Safe Work Australia \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
332 \
3.2.2 Budgeted Departmental Financial Statements Tables \
Table 3.2.1 Comprehensive Income Statement (Showing Net Cost of Services) \
(for the period ended 30 June) \
   \
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
EXPENSES\
Employee benefits 13,146    12,530    12,778    13,023    13,198    \
Suppliers 7,422      6,289      6,534      6,773      6,772      \
Grants 70           100         100         100         100         \
Depreciation and amortisation 442         483* 465* 412* 386*\
Write-dow n  and  impairment  of   ass ets  - - - - -\
Total expenses 21,080    19,402    19,877    20,308    20,456    \
LESS: \
OWN- SOURCE INCOM E\
Own-source revenue\
Sale of goods and rendering of services 9,477      9,617      9,863      10,104    10,192    \
Total own-source revenue 9,477      9,617      9,863      10,104    10,192    \
Gains\
Other (ANAO Resources Free of Charge) 50           60           60           60           60           \
Total gains 50           60           60           60           60           \
Total ow n-source income 9,527      9,677      9,923      10,164    10,252    \
Net cost of (contribution by)\
services (11,553)  (9,725)* (9,954)* (10,144)* (10,204)*\
Revenue from Government 8,932      9,242      9,489      9,732      9,818      \
Surplus (Deficit) attributable to\
 the Australian Government (2,621)    (483)* (465)* (412)* (386)*\
Note: Impact of Net Cash Apppropriation Arrangements\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Total Comprehensive Income \
(los s )  le s s   de pr e ciation/am  or tis ation\
expenses previously funded through\
revenue appropriations. (2,179)    -             -             -             -             \
plus depreciation/amortisation expenses\
previously funded through revenue\
appropriations\
1\
       (483) (442)       (465)       (412)       (386)       \
Total Comprehensive Income \
(loss) - as per the Statement of\
Comprehensive Income     (2,621)        (483)        (465)        (412)        (386)\
1 \
From 2010-11, the Government introduced net cash appropriation arrangements w here Bill 1 revenue \
appropriations for the depreciation/amortisation expenses of FMA Act agencies w ere replaced w ith a \
separate capital budget (the Departmental Capital Budget, or DCB) provided through Bill 1 equity \
appropriations. For information regarding DCBs, please refer to Table 3.2.5 Departmental Capital Budget \
Statement.Safe Work Australia \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
333 \
Table 3.2.2: Budgeted Balance Sheet (as at 30 June) \
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
ASSETS\
Financial assets\
Cash and cash equivalents 280 280 280 280 280\
Trade and other receivables 6,438 6,823 7,199 7,515 8,032\
Total financial assets 6,718 7,103 7,479 7,795 8,312\
Non-financial assets\
Buildings 1,324 1,023 722 421 120\
Property, plant and equipment 94 69 20 121 64\
Intangibles 280 165 50 50 33\
Other non-financial assets 86 86 86 86 86\
Total non-financial assets 1,784 1,343 878 678 303\
Total assets 8,502 8,446 8,357 8,473 8,615\
LIABILITIES\
Payables\
Suppliers 928 928 928 928 928\
Total payables 928 928 928 928 928\
Provisions\
Employee provisions 3,528 3,904 4,280 4,580 4,880\
Tota  l   pr ovi si ons 3,528 3,904 4,280 4,580 4,880\
Total liabilities 4,456 4,832 5,208 5,508 5,808\
Net assets 4,046 3,614 3,149 2,965 2,807\
EQUIT Y\
Contributed equity 3,849 3,900 3,900 4,128 4,356\
Reserves 636 636 636 636 636\
Retained surplus\
(accumulated deficit) (439)        (922)        (1,387)     (1,799)     (2,185)     \
Total Equity 4,046 3,614 3,149 2,965 2,807Safe Work Australia \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
334 \
Table 3.2.3: Statement of Changes in Equity \'97 Summary of Movement \
(Budget Year 2012-13) \
Retained Asset Other Contributed Total\
earnings revaluation reserves equity/ equity\
reserve capital\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
Opening balance as at 1 July 2012\
Balance carried forw ard from\
previous period (439)    636 - 3,849 4,046\
Adjusted opening balance    636 - 3,849 4,046 (439)\
Comprehensive income\
Surplus (deficit) for the period (483)    - - - (483)    \
Tota  l   compr ehensi ve  i ncome    - - - (483) (483)    \
Transactions with owners\
Contributions by owners\
Departmental Capital Budget (DCBs) - - - 51 51\
Sub-total transactions with owners - - - 51 51\
Estimated closing balance\
as at 30 June 2013    636 - 3,900 3,614 (922)\
Less: non-controlling interests * -          -               -           -               -          \
Closing balance attributable to the \
Australian Government    636 (922)          - 3,900       3,614  Safe Work Australia \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
335 \
Table 3.2.4: Budgeted Statement of Cash Flows \
(for the period ended 30 June) \
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
OPERATING ACTIVITIES\
Cas h  r e ce ive d\
Appropriations 8,932 9,242 9,489 9,732 9,818\
Sale of goods and rendering of services 10,408 10,579 10,849 11,114 11,211\
Total cash received 19,340 19,821 20,338 20,846 21,029\
Cash used\
Employees 13,146 12,530 12,778 13,023 13,198\
Suppliers 7,422 6,289 6,534 6,773 6,772\
Grants - Cash Used 70 100 100 100 100\
Net GST paid 749 652 676 700 692\
Total cash used 21,387 19,571 20,088 20,596 20,762\
Net cash from (used by)\
operating activities (2,047)     250 250 250 267\
INVESTING ACTIVITIES\
Cas h  r e ce ive d\
Proceeds from sales of property,\
plant and equipment - - - - -\
Total cash received - - - - -\
Cash used\
Purchase of property, plant \
and equipment 21 42 - 162 11\
Purchase/development of softw are 150 - - 50  -\
Total cash used 171 42 - 212 11\
Net cash from (used by)  \
investing activities (171)        (42)          - (212)        (11)          \
FINANCING ACTIVITIES\
Cas h  r e ce ive d\
Contributed equity - 51 - 228 228\
Transfers from the OPA 2,207 - - - -\
Total cash received 2,207 51 - 228 228\
Cash used\
Transfers to the OPA - 259 250 266 484\
Total cash used - 259 250 266 484\
Net cash from (used by)  \
financing activities 2,207       (208)        (250)        (38)          (256)        \
Ne  t  incr e  as e   (de cr e as e )\
in cash held          (11) - - - -\
Cash and cash equivalents at the\
beginning of the reporting period 291 280 280 280 280\
Cash and cash equivalents at the \
end of the reporting period 280 280 280 280 280Safe Work Australia \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
336 \
Table 3.2.5: Departmental Capital Budget Statement \
Estimated Budget Forw ard Forw ard Forw ard\
actual estimate estimate estimate estimate\
2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
NEW CAPITAL APPROPRIATIONS\
Capital budget - Bill 1 (DCB) -            51         -           228        228          \
Total new capital appropriations            -         51           228 -        228          \
Provided for:\
Purchase of non-financial assets -            51         -           228        228          \
Total Items            -         51           228 -        228          \
PURCHASE OF NON- FINANCIAL\
ASSETS\
Funded by capital appropriation - DCB \
1\
              42 -           -             212         11            \
Funded internally from\
departmental resources \
2\
         171             -             - -              -              \
TOTAL       171         - 42           212                    11\
RECONCILIATION OF CASH\
USED TO ACQUIRE ASSETS\
TO  ASSET  M OV EM ENT  TABLE\
Total purchases 171       42         -           212        11            \
Total cash used to\
acquire assets       171         - 42                   212            11\
(DCB) = Departmental Capital Budget\
1\
Does not include annual f inance lease costs.  Include purchase from current and previous\
years' Departmental Capital Budgets (DCBs).\
2\
Includes the follow ing sources of funding:\
   - current and prior year Bill 1/3/5 appropriations (excluding amounts from the DCB).Safe Work Australia \'96 Budgeted financial statements \
337 \
Table 3.2.6: Statement of Asset Movements (2012-13) \
3.2.3 Notes to the financial statements \
Other gains represented in the Comprehensive Income Statement are resources \
received free of charge from other Commonwealth agencies. \
Buildings Other property, Computer Total\
plant and softw are and\
equipment intangibles\
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000\
As at 1 July 2012\
Gross book value 1,625 172 357 2,154\
Accumulated depreciation/amortisation \
and impairment (301) (78) (77) (456)\
Opening net book balance 1,324 94 280 1,698\
CAPITAL ASSET ADDITIONS\
Estimated expenditure on\
new or replacement assets\
By purchase - appropriation ordinary\
annual services \
1\
- 42 - 42\
Disposals - (18) (18)\
Total additions - 24 - 24\
Othe r   m ove m e nts\
Depreciation/amortisation expense (301) (67) (115) (483)\
Disposals 18 18\
Total other movements (301) (49) (115) (465)\
As at 30 June 2013\
Gross book value 1,625 196 357 2,178\
Accumulated depreciation/amortisation\
and impairment (602) (127) (192) (921)\
Closing net book balance 1,023 69 165 1,257\
1\
 "Appropriation ordinary annual services" refers to funding provided through Appropriation Bill (No.1)\
2012-13 for  depreciation / amortisation expenses, DCBs or other operational expenses.Glossary & Acronyms \
339 \
PORTFOLIO GLOSSARY\
Accrual Accounting System of accounting where items are brought to \
account and included in the financial statements as \
they are earned or incurred, rather than as they are \
received or paid.  \
Accumulated Depreciation The aggregate depreciation recorded for a particular \
depreciating asset. \
Additional Estimates  Where amounts  appropriated at Budget time are \
insufficient, Parliament may appropriate more funds \
to portfolios through the Additional Estimates Acts.  \
Additional Estimates Bills or \
Acts \
These are Appropriation Bills 3 and 4, and a separate \
Bill for the Parliamentary Departments \
[Appropriations (Parliamentary Departments) Bill \
(No. 2)]. These Bills are introduced into Parliament \
sometime after the Budget Bills. \
Administered Items Expenses, revenues, assets or liabilities managed by \
agencies on behalf of the Commonwealth. Agencies \
do not control administered items. Administered \
expenses include grants, subsidies and benefits. In \
many cases, administered expenses fund the delivery \
of third party outputs. \
Appropriation An authorisation by Parliament to spend moneys \
from the Consolidated Revenue Fund for a particular \
purpose. \
Annual Appropriation Two Appropriation Bills are introduced into \
Parliament in May and comprise the Budget for the \
financial year beginning  1 July. Further Bills are \
introduced later in the financial year as part of the \
additional estimates. Parliamentary departments \
have their own appropriations. \
Assets Assets are physical objects and legal rights it is \
expected will provide benefits in the future or \
alternatively items of value owned by an Agency.  \
Budget Measure A decision by Cabinet or Ministers and has resulted \
in a cost or savings to outlays. Glossary & Acronyms \
340 \
Capital expenditure Expenditure by an agency on capital projects, for \
example purchasing a building. \
Consolidated Revenue Fund Section 81 of the Constitution stipulates that all \
revenue raised or money received by the \
Commonwealth forms the one consolidated revenue \
fund (CRF). The CRF is not a bank account. The \
Official Public Account reflects most of the operations \
of the CRF.  \
Departmental items Assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses that are \
controlled by the agency in providing its outputs. \
Departmental items would generally include \
computers, plant and equipment assets used by \
agencies in providing goods and services and most \
employee expenses, supplier costs and other \
administrative expenses incurred.  \
Depreciation Apportionment of an asset\'92s capital value as an \
expense over its estimated useful life to take account \
of normal usage, obsolescence, or the passage of time. \
Effectiveness indicators Measures the  joint or independent contribution of \
outputs and administered items to the achievement \
of their specified outcome. \
Efficiency indicators Measures the adequacy of an agency's management \
of its outputs (and where applicable, administered \
items). Includes Price, Quality and Quantity \
indicators. The interrelationship between the three \
efficiency indicators of any one output should be \
considered when judging efficiency. \
Equity or net assets Residual interest in the assets of an entity after \
deduction of its liabilities. \
Expenses Total value of all of the resources consumed in \
producing goods and services or the loss of future \
economic benefits in the form of reductions in assets \
or increases in liabilities of an entity. \
   Glossary & Acronyms \
341 \
Fair value Valuation methodology: The amount for which an \
asset could be exchanged or a liability settled, \
between knowledgeable and willing parties in an \
arm\'92s length transaction. The fair value can be \
affected by the conditions of the sale, market \
conditions and the intentions of the asset holder. \
Financial Management and \
Accountability (FMA) Act 1997 \
The principal legislation governing the proper use \
and management of public money and public \
property and other Australian Government \
resources. FMA Regulations and FMA Orders are \
made pursuant to the Act. \
Financing transactions The Government funds shortfalls in revenue over \
outlays by borrowing from financial markets or \
running down financial assets. Such activities are \
regarded as financing transactions. If a surplus of \
revenue over outlays is recorded then financing \
transactions will show how the surplus is used. \
Forward estimates A system of rolling three year financial estimates. \
After the budget is passed, the first year of the \
forward estimates becomes the base for the next \
year\'92s budget bid, and another out-year is added to \
the forward estimates.  \
Government Finance Statistics \
(GFS) \
The GFS reporting framework is a specialised \
statistical system designed to support economic \
analysis of the public sector. It allows comprehensive \
assessments to be made of the economic impact of \
government and is consistent with international \
statistical standards (the System of National Accounts \
1993 (SNA93) and the International Monetary Funds\'92 \
A Manual on Government Finance Statistics 2001). \
Liabilities Liabilities represent amounts owing on goods or \
services that have been received but not yet paid for. \
A liability shows the future commitment of the \
Agency\'92s assets. \
Loan Fund Established by the FMA Act 1997, the Loan Fund \
contains all monies raised by loans on the public \
credit of the Australian Government. Expenditure \
from the Loan Fund is limited to the purpose for \
which monies were raised.  Glossary & Acronyms \
342 \
Net annotated appropriation \
(Section 31 Receipts) \
Section 31 receipts, also known as net annotated \
appropriations, are a form of appropriation which \
allows a department access to certain money it \
receives in payment of services. These monies are \
known as Section 31 Receipts, reflecting their \
authority under Section 31 of the FMA Act 1997. \
Operating result Equals revenue less expenses.  \
Outcomes The Government's objectives in each portfolio area. \
Outcomes are desired results, impacts or \
consequences for the Australian community as \
influenced by the actions of the Australian \
Government. Actual outcomes are assessments of the \
end-results or impacts actually achieved. \
Portfolio Budget Statements Statements prepared by portfolios to explain the \
budget appropriations in terms of outcomes. \
Receipts The total or gross amount received by the Australian \
Government. Each receipt item is either revenue, an \
offset within outlays, or a financing transaction. \
Receipts include taxes, interest, charges for goods \
and services, borrowings and Government Business \
Enterprise (GBE) dividends received. \
Revenue Total value of resources earned or received to cover \
the production of goods and services. \
Section 31 Receipts See net annotated appropriation.  \
Special Account Balances existing  within the Consolidated Revenue \
Fund (CRF) that are supported by standing \
appropriations (FMA Act 1997, ss.20 and 21). Special \
accounts allow money in the CRF to be \
acknowledged as set-aside (hypothecated) for a \
particular purpose. Amounts credited to a Special \
Account may only be spent for the purposes of the \
Special Account. Special Accounts can only be \
established by a written determination of the Finance \
Minister (s.20 of the FMA Act 1997) or through an Act \
of  Parliament  (referred  to  in  s.21  of  the  FMA  Act \
1997). \
   Glossary & Acronyms \
343 \
Special Appropriations \
(including Standing \
Appropriations) \
An amount of money appropriated by a particular \
Act of Parliament for a specific purpose and number \
of years. For special appropriations the authority to \
withdraw funds from the Consolidated Revenue \
Fund does not generally cease at the end of the \
financial year. Standing appropriations are a \
sub-category consisting of ongoing special \
appropriations \'97 the amount appropriated will \
depend on circumstances specified in the legislation. Glossary & Acronyms \
344 \
PORTFOLIO ACRONYMS\
AAO Administrative Arrangements Order \
ABCC Office of the Australian Building and Construction \
Commissioner \
ABS Australian Bureau of Statistics \
ACARA Australian Curriculum Assessment and Reporting \
Authority \
AEIFRS Australian Equivalents to International Financial \
Reporting Standards \
AGIE Australian Government Indigenous Expenditure \
AIRC Australian Industrial Relations Commission \
AITSL Australian Institute for Teaching and School Leadership \
ANAO Australian National Audit Office \
ATO Australian Taxation Office \
CAC Commonwealth Authorities and Companies \
CAS Commonwealth Accommodation Scholarship \
CCB Child Care Benefit \
CCR Child Care Rebate \
CECs Commonwealth Education Costs Scholarships \
CGS Commonwealth Grants Scheme \
COAG Council of Australian Governments \
CPI Consumer Price Index \
CSI Centre for Social Impact \
DEEWR Department of Education, Employment and Workplace \
Relations Glossary & Acronyms \
345 \
DES Disability Employment Services \
DoFD Department of Finance and Deregulation \
FaHCSIA Department of Families, Housing, Community Services \
and Indigenous Affairs \
FWBII Office of the Fair Work Building Industry Inspectorate \
FFR Federal Financial Relations \
FMA Financial Management and Accountability \
FTB Family Tax Benefit \
FWA Fair Work Australia \
FWO Fair Work Ombudsman \
GFS Government Finance Statistics \
GST Goods and Services Tax \
HECS Higher Education Contribution Scheme \
HELP Higher Education Loan Program \
ICT Information and Communications Technology \
IESIP Indigenous Education Strategic Initiatives Program \
ICT Information and Communication Technology \
IEP Indigenous Employment Program \
ITAS Indigenous Tutorial Assistance Scheme \
IYMP Indigenous Youth Mobility Program \
JET Jobs Education and Training \
JETCCFA Jobs Education and Training, Child Care Fee Assistance \
JSA Jobs Services Australia \
KPI Key Performance Indicator Glossary & Acronyms \
346 \
LCP\'92s Local Community Partnerships \
LLNP Language, Literacy and Numeracy Program \
MCEEDYA Ministerial Council for Education, Early childhood \
Development and Youth Affairs \
MYEFO Mid-Year Economic and Fiscal Outlook \
NP National Partnership \
NTER Northern Territory Emergency Response \
OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and \
Development \
OECECC Office of Early Childhood Education and Child Care \
PAES Portfolio Additional Estimates Statements \
PBS Portfolio Budget Statements \
PEFO Pre-Election Economic and Fiscal Outlook \
RJCP Remote Jobs and Communities Program \
SES Socio-economic status \
SPP Specific Purpose Payment \
SRCC Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Commission \
SWA Safe Work Australia \
TAFE Technical and Further Education \
VET Vocational Education and Training \
WRA  Workplace Relations Act 1996}